# Update docs with Git + encryption changes

**brikis98** commented *Jun 3, 2016*

Do Readme Driven Development to flush out the ideas for:
1. Using Git for locking
2. Automatic state management with Git
3. Using KMS for encryption

<br />
***


**josh-padnick** commented *Jun 30, 2016*

I realize now I never reviewed this PR from 27 days ago! I don't currently have time to read all these changes, so perhaps merge now? Let me know if there's anything specific you'd like a review on.

***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 30, 2016*

This is purely an RDD PR. It's a thought experiment on whether it makes sense to use Git for locking. There are serious pros and cons there. No need to merge until we discuss and decide if it's worth implementing. No hurry on this one either.

***

**josh-padnick** commented *Jun 30, 2016*

Roger.

***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 3, 2016*

Update: this PR is now very out of date, so it can't be merged as-is. However, the general ideas and discussion over whether Git is a good locking mechanism are still worth considering.

***

**mechastorm** commented *Dec 8, 2016*

Any chance this feature can be merged in yet to master after dealing with the conflicts?
***

**brikis98** commented *Dec 8, 2016*

This PR was just put up for discussion. It has not actually been implemented. Comments and feedback welcome :)
***

**robkinyon** commented *Jan 5, 2017*

I'm confused - why would KMS encryption only be usable with the Git backend? There's no discussion why I wouldn't be able to use KMS encryption with the S3 backend.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 5, 2017*

> There's no discussion why I wouldn't be able to use KMS encryption with the S3 backend.

The S3 backend already has encryption if you set the `encrypt` config to true.
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 20, 2017*

Since Terraform now natively supports locking, no longer keeps a local cache of the tfstate file, and has more plans related to security on the horizon, going forward with the plan in this PR makes no sense, so I'm going to close it.
***

