# Allow creating GCS remote state bucket with Bucket Policy Only

**chrissng** commented *Feb 6, 2020*

GCP recommends setting uniform bucket-level access (Bucket Policy Only) on GCS buckets, because it unifies and simplifies how one grants access to your Cloud Storage objects. If we regard terraform state to be sensitive, knowing that access control only is managed at the bucket-level helps to ensure that access to all objects is restricted to what is defined at the bucket-level.

This PR enables users to opt-in to this setting by defining `enable_bucket_policy_only = true` under `config`.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Feb 6, 2020*

@robmorgan Could you review this when you get a chance?
***

**robmorgan** commented *Feb 11, 2020*

I have a broken build, it looks like we need to update the Google Go SDK in order to set `BucketPolicyOnly`. I'll handle it.
***

**robmorgan** commented *Feb 12, 2020*

Actually @chrissng would you be able to help me with this? We likely need to update the Go dependencies in the `Gopkg.toml` and `Gopkg.lock` files. You can test it successfully compiles using the following command: `go build -o terragrunt . && ./terragrunt`.

At the moment the [builds](https://circleci.com/gh/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/4016) are returning the following error:

```
# github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/vendor/google.golang.org/api/internal
vendor/google.golang.org/api/internal/conn_pool.go:29:2: undefined: grpc.ClientConnInterface
FAIL	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/test [build failed]
?   	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/test/helpers	[no test files]
```
***

**chrissng** commented *Feb 13, 2020*

@robmorgan I believe you may have attempted to update `google.golang.org/api` to the latest version. That vendor package seems to have an issue with grpc as you have pointed out. Version 0.16.0 of `google.golang.org/api` works.

I have also bumped `cloud.google.com/go` to `0.53.0`
***

**robmorgan** commented *Feb 18, 2020*

I've kicked off another build in: https://circleci.com/gh/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/4109
***

**robmorgan** commented *Feb 18, 2020*

It looks like the tests passed in https://circleci.com/workflow-run/9b72494c-de89-4065-a1b6-c09b78f626d8, so I'm going to merge and release this one.
***

