# Codegen

**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 14, 2020*

This implements the `generate` block that we discussed internally. I also took the liberty to add in a `generate` attribute to the `remote_state` block for generating the `config` of `remote_state`. Doing so allows you to generate the remote state config while taking advantage of the auto init functionality to create the S3/GCS bucket automatically.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Feb 14, 2020*

> I also took the liberty to add in a generate attribute to the remote_state block for generating the config of remote_state. Doing so allows you to generate the remote state config while taking advantage of the auto init functionality to create the S3/GCS bucket automatically.

I have nothing against it, but I'm curious, what's the advantage of generated code over CLI args for the remote state config?
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 16, 2020*

> Add it to https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/features/keep-your-terraform-code-dry/.

Done: 58c5ea6 

> Add it to https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/getting-started/quick-start/

Done: cb79d17 

> I have nothing against it, but I'm curious, what's the advantage of generated code over CLI args for the remote state config?

I don't think there is a huge difference here. I could only come up with 2 advantages, and both of them are fairly weak:

- Since the config isn't set through CLI args, they don't show up in the logs (previously you can see all the config in the logs because terragrunt will log all the args).
- Avoid potential bugs due to quoting issues with json.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 16, 2020*

I believe I addressed all the comments, but given the amount of new stuff added, I rerequested a review.
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 16, 2020*

>I don't think there is a huge difference here. I could only come up with 2 advantages, and both of them are fairly weak:

I just realized one more... You no longer need the empty `terraform { backend "xxx" { } }` block in every one of your modules! That seems very valuable to me. We may even want to update all of our docs to recommend using this `generate` feature and not specifying the `backend` block manually.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 18, 2020*

> We may even want to update all of our docs to recommend using this generate feature and not specifying the backend block manually.

This is probably a good idea, but let's do this in a separate PR so as not to hold this feature up. Going to merge this in and release now.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 18, 2020*

Filed https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1054 so we don't forget.
***

**sleungcy** commented *Feb 18, 2020*

ðŸ‘ I needed this! Thanks Yori ðŸ‘ ðŸ‘ ðŸ‘ 
***

**arashilmg** commented *Feb 26, 2020*

Thanks @yorinasub17 generate is f awesome.
How can I disable the first signature line ?
I'm generating a json file (appsettings) and cannot have any comments inside it.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 26, 2020*

> How can I disable the first signature line ?

Ah that's a feature we currently don't have, but an option (something like `disable_signature`?) is probably a good idea. A PR to add that feature would be much appreciated!
***

**lorengordon** commented *Apr 7, 2020*

@arashilmg @yorinasub17 I just ran into the same problem, opened an issue: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1121
***

**arash-bizcover** commented *Apr 8, 2020*

as a quick dirty workaround I did remove the line with Terraform `replace` function while reading the content of the file, like this:

`
replace(templatefile(GENERATEDFILE.json,{}),"/^#.*rragrunt.*\n/","")
`

_I'm using templatefile as I populate some var in my json file, it might not be needed_
***

