# Don’t auto add terraform args to apply-all

**joshmyers** commented *Feb 25, 2020*

#### what

When using apply-all, and setting plan files to be used as 
extra_arguments, these arguments are automatically being added to our TF
command, which we could add manually if we wanted via extra_args etc.
Because these args are automatically added and using a planfile via 
extra_args for apply ends up like[1] when using apply-all, which fails.

[1]
```
terraform apply tfplan -input=false -auto-approve
```

#### tests

https://gist.github.com/joshmyers/72408e85a90c5ac9686c80a9c91c39f1

Some failing tests but they seem to be failing on master too...

#### Related

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/386
<br />
***


**joshmyers** commented *Feb 26, 2020*

@brikis98 I get that this breaks backwards compatibility, but given Terragrunt gives users several ways to set vars via a mechanism, magically auto adding feels unexpected, especially ones like `-auto-approve`.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 26, 2020*

Note that because terragrunt runs the underlying terraform calls in parallel when running `xxx-all`, the stdin is shared across all the runs. So when you don't do `-auto-approve`, you won't actually know which one you are approving everytime you get a prompt because you would be approving all the ones that has shown up to the point of submitting your answer.

For this to work, you either need to:

- Force concurrency to 1 when in manual approval mode.
- Fix the way terragrunt handles interactive prompts by micromanaging the outputs and showing each prompt with the relevant context one at a time.
***

**steve-a-jones** commented *Apr 20, 2020*

My team is also looking for this functionality  --  @joshmyers is this still being worked on given the latest response from @yorinasub17  ?
***

**joshmyers** commented *Apr 26, 2020*

@steve-a-jones Nope I dropped pursing this as it felt like a janky workflow. stdout is also shared across runs.
***

