# Update find_in_parent_folders to return absolute path

**brikis98** commented *Mar 2, 2020*

Currently, the `find_in_parent_folders` function returns a relative path to the file it finds. This PR updates it to return the absolute path to that file. Depending on where you are using `find_in_parent_folders`, this can be important: e.g., one place I saw the relative path cause an issue is:

1. I had a child `terragrunt.hcl` that used `include` on a parent `terragrunt.hcl`.
1. The parent `terragrunt.hcl` called `read_terragrunt_config(find_in_parent_folder("foo.hcl"))`
1. `foo.hcl` called `read_terragrunt_config(find_in_parent_folder("bar.hcl"))`

This led to an error where Terragrunt said `read_terragrunt_config` could not find `../../bar.hcl`, even though that file existed. I believe the error was because we were returning a relative path for it, but with `.terragrunt-cache/xxx/yyy` as the working dir, that ended up being the wrong path. The change in this PR to an absolute path fixed the issue.

I'm not aware of any case where a relative path would have an advantage over an absolute path, so this is a backwards incompatible change to always return an absolute path.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Mar 3, 2020*

Thanks for the review! Merging now.
***

**madsonic** commented *Mar 5, 2020*

this has to be updated too. `docs/_docs/02_features/keep-your-remote-state-configuration-dry.md:108`
***

**zackproser** commented *Mar 5, 2020*

Thanks @madsonic! I made a PR to update that doc as well.
***

**dexterlakin** commented *Jul 1, 2021*

Is there a way to conditionally set this?

We have a CICD pipeline that needs to support a wide range of terragrunt versions.
***

