# Add ability for Terragrunt to download Terraform configurations

**brikis98** commented *Jan 25, 2017*

This PR adds a new element you can specify in the `.terragrunt` file:

```hcl
terraform {
  source = "git::git@github.com:foo/bar.git//my-terraform-configurations?ref=v0.0.1"
}
```

When you specify this parameter, Terragrunt will download the Terraform configurations at the `source` URL to a temporary folder and run Terraform in that temporary folder. 

This makes it easy to version all of your Terraform configurations and deploy a specific version automatically, similar to Kief Morris’ [pipelines idea](https://medium.com/@kief/https-medium-com-kief-using-pipelines-to-manage-environments-with-infrastructure-as-code-b37285a1cbf5). 

You can also override the `source` parameter with the `--terragrunt-source` command-line flag and `TERRAGRUNT_SOURCE` environment variable, which makes it easy to use a local checkout for iterative development.

See the Readme for full details.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Jan 26, 2017*

@josh-padnick Please take a look when you have a chance. I'd like to merge this in today.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 26, 2017*

Also, after using this for a bit with a real-world use case, here are a few follow-up tasks:

1. Instead of downloading the code into a new tmp folder each time, find a way to reuse an existing folder and intelligently update it. Otherwise, if your code includes lots of modules, having to run `terraform get` from scratch each time can be slow.
1. Find some way to override the `source` parameter for the `spin-up` and `tear-down` commands so you can spin up an entire stack from a local checkout.
1. Consider if Terragrunt should be able to read its configuration not only from a `.terragrunt` file, but also a `terragrunt` key within a `terraform.tfvars` file: 

    ```hcl
    # Normal params in terraform.tfvars
    foo = "bar"

    # Terragrunt params
    terragrunt {
      lock { ... }
      remote_state { ... }
    }
    ```

    The advantage of that is that you have one less file and folder to manage for each component:

    ```
    infrastructure-live
      └ stage
        └ frontend-app.tfvars
        └ backend-app.tfvars
        └ search-app.tfvars
        └ mysql.tfvars
        └ redis.tfvars
        └ vpc.tfvars
      └ prod
        └ frontend-app.tfvars
        └ backend-app.tfvars
        └ search-app.tfvars
        └ mysql.tfvars
        └ redis.tfvars
        └ vpc.tfvars
    ```

    Moreover, instead of worrying about a special "root" `.terragrunt` file, you can a root `.tfvars` file with shared configs (or even multiple shared `.tfvars` files), as Terraform merges configs together automatically.
***

**josh-padnick** commented *Jan 26, 2017*

Looking now...
***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 26, 2017*

OK, I'm going to merge this one in.
***

