# Lookup remote outputs concurrently

**dmattia** commented *Apr 4, 2020*

At transcend-io, we have >300 terragrunt modules with fairly deep dependency chains. In fact, our primary backend ECS module requires looking up the `terraform output -json` of 52 modules (after caching).

Here are some benchmarks of running the code on my local laptop. All benchmarks were taken on the module with 52 `output` calls, all after the terragrunt-cache was completely made to minimize the effects of downloading providers, external modules, etc.

Using `terragrunt version v0.23.2`:
terragrunt plan  53.33s user 12.51s system 28% cpu 3:54.80 total
terragrunt plan  52.82s user 12.22s system 26% cpu 4:04.88 total
terragrunt plan  54.26s user 12.33s system 30% cpu 3:38.67 total

Using a binary made from `go build main.go`:
~/transcend/terragrunt/main plan  59.45s user 12.95s system 91% cpu 1:18.80 total
~/transcend/terragrunt/main plan  58.19s user 13.15s system 90% cpu 1:18.77 total
~/transcend/terragrunt/main plan  57.66s user 12.78s system 83% cpu 1:23.94 total

This change adds a dependency on golang.org/x/sync, which is very useful for running concurrent operations with easy error handling
<br />
***


**dmattia** commented *Apr 4, 2020*

If you have any suggestions for adding tests I'd be happy to add them! From my quick analysis, it doesn't look like there is much existing testing infrastructure around dependency parsing, but I very well could have missed it as I'm very new to golang.

I'm not very familiar with testing go channels, as I just learned about channels about an hour ago, but I'd be glad to learn and add tests if you think it's a good idea
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Apr 4, 2020*

Build passed and update looks good, so going to merge. Thanks for the contribution!
***

