# Parallelism control on *-all commands

**mauriciopoppe** commented *Apr 6, 2020*

An attempt to continue the work in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/636, I added a few concurrency integration tests based on times and buckets

Given n modules when `--terragrunt-parallelism` is set to `p` we'll initially have `p` parallel module executions (this is a bucket or batch of executions), these executions talk with a server that simply sleeps for `sleep` seconds and then returns the server time, assuming that the first request finished at time `start` if we know that the initial p executions return in at most `k` seconds the initial times will look like this:

```
first_bucket = [e_1, e_2, ... e_p]
times = [e_time1, ..., e_timep]          // unsorted

min(times) = start
max(times) = start + k
```

Because it's impossible to know which bucket an execution belongs to I'm instead hoping that after sorting all of the times we have a clear definition of the boundaries between buckets

- differences between items in different buckets is at least `sleep` (in the impl `timeBetweenBuckets`
- differences between items in the same bucket is at most `k` (in the impl `timeInsideBucket`

I'm using the data http provider and the during apply the time it takes to download the provider skews some of these numbers, during my local tests I've never encountered a case where `k > sleep` but it's nevertheless a possible case

Some execution examples:

Parallelism test n=4 p=2 timeBetweenBuckets=20 timeInsideBucket=10

```
// 0s diff in the first bucket, 2 seconds in the second bucket
sortedTimes=[1586136362 1586136362 1586136391 1586136393] 

// 8s diff in the first bucket, 9 seconds in the second bucket, this test was close to failing
sortedTimes=[1586136485 1586136493 1586136514 1586136523] 

// 1s diff in the first bucket, 3 seconds in the second bucket
sortedTimes=[1586136690 1586136691 1586136723 1586136726]

// 0s diff in the first bucket, 2 seconds in the second bucket
sortedTimes=[1586136916 1586136916 1586136948 1586136950]
```

This test failed when I tried to run all of the integration tests, probably because of my network being throttled by all the requests

```
// 16s diff in the first bucket, 15 seconds in the second bucket
sortedTimes=[1586137285 1586137301 1586137330 1586137345]
```

## Update

I've made some tradeoffs to have better control over the boundaries:

- using local state instead of remote state in the integration tests
- I'm fetching the plugins on `terragrunt plan-all` instead of `apply-all`
<br />
***


**sumanmukherjee03** commented *Apr 27, 2020*

+1 to this feature. eagerly waiting for this.
***

**thijsdev** commented *May 7, 2020*

Using the pull request branch and seems to work pretty well. Please add the option to ./cli/cli_app.go as well so users know the feature is there.

And +1 for merge!
***

**brikis98** commented *May 10, 2020*

All tests passed! Merging now. Thanks for the contribution and working hard to get the tests working too. 🍺 
***

**brikis98** commented *May 10, 2020*

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.23.16
***

**mauriciopoppe** commented *May 10, 2020*

@brikis98 Thanks but I just added the tests, all the credits for the concurrency control implementation go to @stephengroat 
***

