# Cache temporary folder

**brikis98** commented *Jan 29, 2017*

In https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/111, I added the ability for Terragrunt to download Terraform files from a given `source` URL. The implementation in that PR downloaded the files to a different temp folder every time. As a result, it also had to run `terraform get` and `terraform remote config` from scratch every time. All together, this added a significant amount of overhead to every single Terraform command.

In this PR, I reuse the same temp folder for a given source URL. The exact caching logic is a bit complicated, as there are different cases to handle for local source URLs vs remote source URLs vs remote source URLs with version numbers (e.g. `ref=v0.0.3`). The result is you only have to download the source code once on your computer. After that, everything is exactly as fast as the normal way of using Terraform. 
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Jan 30, 2017*

@josh-padnick Please review when you have a chance. This caching technique makes a pretty massive difference in usability. For example, for our Jenkins code, which relies on ~8 remote Terraform modules, without the caching, every single Terragrunt command has a ~35 second overhead, most of it spent running `terraform get` and `terraform remote config`. With the caching, the overhead is 0.
***

**josh-padnick** commented *Jan 31, 2017*

Just reviewing this now, before I even get into the code, can we make the case that this feature of Terragrunt adds value above and beyond the new "supercharged" [terraform init](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/pull/11286) command (CTRL-F for "Features (External)")? Conceptually they seems very similar, though it's not clear to me how much caching they do.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 31, 2017*

> Just reviewing this now, before I even get into the code, can we make the case that this feature of Terragrunt adds value above and beyond the new "supercharged" terraform init command (CTRL-F for "Features (External)")? Conceptually they seems very similar, though it's not clear to me how much caching they do.

Good question. I'm not sure until I actually use it, but I'm guessing they download code into the local folder as a way to bootstrap a new project. Our use case is to download code into a tmp folder as a way to deploy an immutable version of your code. 
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 1, 2017*

Thanks for the feedback, merging now.
***

