# Ignore Terraform data directories when running *-all commands

**zachwhaley** commented *Jun 2, 2020*

If a downloaded terraform module happens to have a `terragrunt.hcl` file
in its source code, then Terragrunt `*-all` commands will naturally assume
this `terragrunt.hcl` is part of a local module when in fact Terragrunt
should ignore this `terragrunt.hcl` and its directory.

Fixes #1169 

Test results: https://gist.github.com/zachwhaley/cd914723be1dab98e6c5534e12b6615b
<br />
***


**zachwhaley** commented *Jun 4, 2020*

So, here's a dump of code...

I believe I've addressed the issues mentioned, but not being a regular Go dev I'm not sure I did so in the most Go like fashion.  I found I had to write some standard functions that did not seem available in the stdlib.

Also SplitList does not split on paths but on `:`, e.g. it is used for splitting things like `PATH`, so I had to write my own ðŸ˜ 

Let me know what you think.  I am very open to thoughts and opinions :)
***

**zachwhaley** commented *Jun 4, 2020*

Actually, I think I missed this ðŸ˜•

> if DataDir() returned an absolute path, call SplitList on it too and check if it is an exact prefix of path
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 5, 2020*

> I believe I've addressed the issues mentioned, but not being a regular Go dev I'm not sure I did so in the most Go like fashion. I found I had to write some standard functions that did not seem available in the stdlib.

Heh, yea, Go, for some reason, is missing a ton of things you'd expect to be in the stdlib :-\
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 8, 2020*

Tests passed! Merging now.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 8, 2020*

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.23.24
***

