# Download root folders of repos so relative paths work

**brikis98** commented *Feb 3, 2017*

This is a fix for the bug described in #113. Consider the following `.terragrunt` file:

```hcl
terraform {
  source = "github.com/acme/infrastructure-modules.git//foo/bar"
}
```

Originally, Terragrunt would download the `foo/bar` folder from the `infrastructure-modules` repo into a temp folder. Now imagine that `foo/bar/main.tf` contains the following:

```hcl
module "my_module" {
  source = "../../my-module"
}
```

This code won’t work. That’s because it uses a relative path to the `my-module` folder, which is in the `infrastructure-modules` repo, but Terragrunt didn’t download it, since it wasn’t in the `foo/bar` folder.

This PR updates the downloading logic to download the entire repo, identified by the part of the `source` URL before the double-slash `//` into a temporary folder, and to set the working directory to the `foo/bar` folder within that temporary folder. This way, relative paths should work as you expect. Local file paths can specify a double-slash as well for the same purpose. If no double-slash is specified, Terragrunt logs a warning, and downloads solely the one folder.
<br />
***


**joslynesser** commented *Feb 3, 2017*

Perfect timing! I've been setting up a terragrunt foundation for our org's ops and bumped into this very same issue due to having all of our blueprint modules stored in the same repo as our live stage/prod houses. Thought I was going to need to go the route of having another layer of modules and boilerplate variables passing through the stack, but this will let us go back to using `source` and DRY up a lot of code! Thanks for cranking this out so quickly 🍺 
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 4, 2017*

@josh-padnick I'm going to merge this in so I can build the next increment, but please review when you have a chance.
***

