# Read configuration from terraform.tfvars

**brikis98** commented *Feb 5, 2017*

This PR changes Terragrunt so that, by default, it reads its configuration from `terraform.tfvars` instead of `.terragrunt`. The reasons for this change are:

1. We piggyback on top of a file format Terraform users are already used to.
1. We reduce the number of files you need. This is especially valuable with [remote Terraform configurations](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt#remote-terraform-configurations), as it means you only need a single `terraform.tfvars` file to define what code to download and provide the variables for that code.

For backwards compatibility, I’ve made sure that Terragrunt can still use `.terragrunt` files as before, though it will now log a deprecation warning. 

Note, this is a long PR, but just about all of the important stuff is in two files: `README.md` and `config.go`. Please focus your code review efforts there. The rest of the changes are:

1. Test code to check the new functionality.
1. Test code to check backwards compatibility with the old `.terragrunt` configuration format.
1. Updating lots of comments, docs, and test cases to not explicitly say `.terragrunt`. We had that copy/pasted in too many places.
1. An unrelated change regarding filepaths. We need to use `util.JoinPath` for paths to work correctly on all platforms. I should've done this fix as a separate PR, but got impatient.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Feb 7, 2017*

@josh-padnick This is a pretty significant change, so please take a look when you have a chance.
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 9, 2017*

@josh-padnick Reminder.
***

**josh-padnick** commented *Feb 9, 2017*

@brikis98 My apologies for the delay on this. Reviewing now...
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 9, 2017*

Merging now.
***

