# Make retryable errors configurable

**infraredgirl** commented *Jun 23, 2020*

### Description

This change enables users to create their own custom list of retryable errors in the `terragrunt.hcl`.

### Related issue
Closes: #1040

### How to test

To test this you can use these 2 files:
`main.tf`:

```tcl
resource "null_resource" "example" {
  triggers = {
    always_recreate = timestamp()
  }

provisioner "local-exec" {
    command = "echo 'My own little error' && exit 1"
  }
}

output "text" {
  value = "Hello, World"
}
```

`terragrunt.hcl`:
```tcl
retryable_errors = [
"My own little error"
]
```


Then just run `go run main.go apply` and the error which is specified in the config file should be detected as retryable and retries attempted. To make sure other errors are not picked up as retryable, edit the `echo` statement in `main.tf` to output a different error message, and re-run `go run main.go apply`. Now `terragrunt` should just fail without attempting retries.


### Known issues / still TBD:

- [x] Add unit tests
- [x] Add integration tests
~- [ ] Change the format of the retryable errors structure. Right now it's a list of regex strings and we want a map of regexes and error descriptions (as described in the [issue](#1040)).~ We decided to stick with using the list for now.
- [x] Make the config option optional (right now terragrunt errors out if this option is not set in the config file; it should fall back to using the default hardcoded value instead)

<br />
***


**infraredgirl** commented *Jun 23, 2020*

Thanks so much - updated the PR to address the comments.

Last remaining item is integration test - looking into that now!
***

**infraredgirl** commented *Oct 7, 2020*

Marking as WIP while still working on this.

Issues left to address:

- [x] Rebase and fix conflicts
- [x] Add docs from PR #1231 to this PR and close the other PR
- [x] Add the missing integration test (see [this comment](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/1232#discussion_r444320783))
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 8, 2020*

@infraredgirl Feel free to merge, do a release, and add to our newsletter!
***

**infraredgirl** commented *Oct 8, 2020*

> LGTM! I think this is ready to merge if the tests are passing :)

Thanks for the review @brikis98! Tests are passing for me locally. `terragrunt` doesn't seem to have any automated tests/CI hooked up to run on PR submissions AFAICS, so are we good to merge when tests pass locally?
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 8, 2020*

Ohhh, it does have tests, but they don't run for PRs submitted by people outside our org. It's weird that it doesn't update that after you've joined the org... Perhaps some GitHub bug/limit?

Might be a good chance to practice with this tool that we use to trigger test runs for PRs submitted by people outside the org: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/prototypes/tree/master/testpr
***

**infraredgirl** commented *Oct 8, 2020*

Ah, it's probably because the initial commits in this PR were submitted with my old/non-Gruntwork email. Thanks for the pointer - kicked off the CI build now. Looks like we have some tests failures - looking into those now.
***

**infraredgirl** commented *Oct 8, 2020*

Unit tests are now passing however integration tests seem to be failing on something unrelated to this PR. I can see from previous CI runs that the same 16 integration tests are failing starting 2 days ago. The errors are all the same: `Failed to list object versions in s3 bucket terragrunt-test-bucket-djstsa: NoSuchBucket: The specified bucket does not exist`. Any ideas about this?
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 8, 2020*

> Unit tests are now passing however integration tests seem to be failing on something unrelated to this PR. I can see from previous CI runs that the same 16 integration tests are failing starting 2 days ago. The errors are all the same: `Failed to list object versions in s3 bucket terragrunt-test-bucket-djstsa: NoSuchBucket: The specified bucket does not exist`. Any ideas about this?

Might be a bit of a red herring... 

Do the tests pass when you run one of them at a time locally? If not, could you share the full log output?
***

**infraredgirl** commented *Oct 9, 2020*

Alright, after a few yak shaves (thanks @brikis98 for the help debugging) we have a passing test!

Can I have a final approval please? :) 
***

**infraredgirl** commented *Oct 9, 2020*

Merged, released and updated newsletter!
***

**Fran-ELS-AMS** commented *Oct 9, 2020*

Is there currently any way to add `retryable_errors` to the default hard-coded list, instead of replacing the whole list?

Currently we're copying the whole default list from [here](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/master/options/auto_retry_options.go#L10) and adding our custom errors, but if the default list gets updated we have to manually update our code
***

**infraredgirl** commented *Oct 9, 2020*

> Is there currently any way to add `retryable_errors` to the default hard-coded list, instead of replacing the whole list?
> 
> Currently we're copying the whole default list from here and adding our custom errors, but if the default list gets updated we have to manually update our code

This is not currently supported but we do plan to add it in the future - in fact we already have an open issue for this very feature: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1383.
***

**Fran-ELS-AMS** commented *Oct 9, 2020*

> > Is there currently any way to add `retryable_errors` to the default hard-coded list, instead of replacing the whole list?
> > Currently we're copying the whole default list from here and adding our custom errors, but if the default list gets updated we have to manually update our code
> 
> This is not currently supported but we do plan to add it in the future - in fact we already have an open issue for this very feature: #1383.

Great, thanks a lot! 🙇 
***

**jubr** commented *Nov 4, 2020*

This cool new feature got me 🤔: could a similar approach also work for the
```
Error: Could not load plugin
Plugin reinitialization required. Please run "terraform init".
```
use case? I'm running into this quite regularly in my dev workflow.
***

**infraredgirl** commented *Nov 4, 2020*

> This cool new feature got me 🤔: could a similar approach also work for the
> 
> ```
> Error: Could not load plugin
> Plugin reinitialization required. Please run "terraform init".
> ```
> 
> use case? I'm running into this quite regularly in my dev workflow.

In other words, terragrunt should automatically run `init` when needed. I think it's worth considering - @jubr would you mind opening an issue for this and we can take it from there?
***

**jubr** commented *Nov 4, 2020*

@infraredgirl ✅ #1414 
***

