# Clarify working directory of hooks

**yorinasub17** commented *Jul 24, 2020*

This PR updates the docs to clarify what the working directory of hooks are.

After some experimentation and code review, I found that the working directory of the hooks actually depended on which hook was running.

It turns out that all hooks run after the `init-from-module` stage is complete will be run in the terraform directory, while anything before that is run in the terragrunt config directory. Note that because the `terragruntOptions` struct is updated AFTER `init-from-module` is done, but is passed in to the hook function BEFORE `init-from-module` is run, `after_hooks` for `init-from-module` still run in the terragrunt config directory.

I verified this using the following config:

```
terraform {
  source = "git::git@github.com:gruntwork-io/terragrunt.git//test/fixture-get-output/regression-1124/modules/app?ref=master"

  after_hook "which_dir_init_from_module" {
    commands = ["init-from-module"]
    execute  = ["pwd"]
  }

  after_hook "which_dir_init" {
    commands = ["init"]
    execute  = ["pwd"]
  }

  before_hook "which_dir_plan" {
    commands = ["plan"]
    execute  = ["pwd"]
  }
}

inputs = {
  foo = "foo"
}
```
<br />
***


**lorengordon** commented *Jul 24, 2020*

@yorinasub17 What do you think about adding a test for this behavior? `init-from-module` was something I contributed a while back, in the terragrunt <0.19 days. My intention was that `init-from-module` would run in the terraform directory, and it did at the time. But that got lost in the [terragrunt 0.19 update](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/749), because there was no test for this behavior...
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jul 24, 2020*

Thanks for review. Going to merge this in now.

@lorengordon Yes I agree we should have tests, but I didn't quite have time to shave that yak so deferred it for now.
***

