# Update terragrunt to generate tfvars.json file instead of using TF_VAR env var

**yorinasub17** commented *Jul 26, 2020*

Fixes #752 

Extends https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/1263 to always generate tfvars json file instead of relying on a debug mode.

NOTE: I decided to open a new PR on a new branch so that we have the other branch in case we decide the debug mode is better.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Jul 30, 2020*

@brikis98 

I believe this is ready to merge now, but quick sanity check. When we first visited this idea, you had some reservations in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/752#issuecomment-503168675. I have an answer to all but one of your questions (about secrets), which is worth thinking through prior to merging this in:

> What file name to use? What if the file exists already? Do we generate a randomly named temp file? What about on subsequent re-runs of `terragrunt` commands?

The file is named `terragrunt-generated.auto.tfvars.json` which hopefully is directed enough that a user won't already be using this. Since the name is static, this file will always be regenerated and replaced on each terragrunt run, given that the contents could dynamically change by env var (e.g., `TF_VAR_varname` would cause terragrunt to omit that var from the json if it is defined in `inputs`).

In future iterations we can better handle a user provided `terragrunt-generated.auto.tfvars.json` file by replacing with `.tfvars` and using the `terragrunt_overwrite` behavior of code generation.

> Do we delete the file after?

No, so that it can be debugged. However, we should consider if that is the right approach given the next bullet:

> What if the values in the `inputs` block are secrets? Writing them to disk may be a bad idea.

**** I don't have a solution for this. Perhaps this is what forces us to delete this file after each run?

> What if the user has `-var-file` arguments already in `extra_arguments`? Does the generated file go before or after those?

Based on the terraform resolution order, these args will merge into the generated inputs. That is, any var defined in `-var-file` will override vars defined in `terragrunt-generated.auto.tfvars.json`. This is validated with the tests.

I believe this was originally asked in the ticket because we were considering passing in the generated tfvars file with `-var-file`, but since we are using the automatic injection, this point is moot.

> What if the user has `-var-file` arguments already when running `terragrunt` (e.g., `terragrunt apply -var-file=foo`? Does the generated file go before or after those?

Same as above bullet.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jul 31, 2020*

> > Do we delete the file after?
> 
> No, so that it can be debugged. However, we should consider if that is the right approach given the next bullet:
> 
> > What if the values in the `inputs` block are secrets? Writing them to disk may be a bad idea.
> 
> **** I don't have a solution for this. Perhaps this is what forces us to delete this file after each run?
> 

Hm, yea, this is a tough one. Some options to think through:

1. Could we use an in-memory-only file? This would be by top choice... I'm pretty sure we could make that work on *nix, but I don't know Windows well enough to see if there's a way to do it there. Example approaches:
    - [stdin](https://stackoverflow.com/a/39230472/483528)
    - [named pipe](https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/63933/215969)
    - [process substitution](https://stackoverflow.com/a/39230530/483528)
    - [tmpfs](https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/188540/215969)
1. We could delete the file right after each run. Of course, this makes debugging harder, so we'd need some `--debug` flag to force the file to stick around. We'd have to be extra careful to ensure that Terragrunt deletes the file even if there's an error or panic. Not much we could do about a forced `kill` (e.g., via `CTRL+C`).
1. If neither of the above works well enough, we go back to env vars, and only write the file when a `--debug` flag is passed.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 1, 2020*

I decided to go with option (2). Now the tfvars file is deleted with a `defer` call, which can be skipped with `--terragrunt-debug`. 150b34b 

> We could delete the file right after each run. Of course, this makes debugging harder, so we'd need some --debug flag to force the file to stick around. We'd have to be extra careful to ensure that Terragrunt deletes the file even if there's an error or panic. Not much we could do about a forced kill (e.g., via CTRL+C).

Looking at [the docs for panic](https://blog.golang.org/defer-panic-and-recover), it looks like all defer calls are executed normally (emphasis mine):

> anic is a built-in function that stops the ordinary flow of control and begins panicking. When the function F calls panic, execution of F stops, **any deferred functions in F are executed normally**, and then F returns to its caller. To the caller, F then behaves like a call to panic....

So I think as long as the defer is done before the call to `writeTFVarsFile` (which I am doing), we are guaranteed to run this cleanup routine, which should mean that we will properly clean up the file in the face of error and panic.
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 1, 2020*

Hm, I still a bit nervous about potentially writing secrets to disk:

1. `terragrunt apply` could run for an hour... That's a long time to have plaintext secrets sitting on disk.
1. For a variety of reasons, the Terragrunt process could be killed before the file is cleaned up. We should prob have tests that validate we clean up the file correctly, including in the face of a panic, but `CTRL+C`, `kill`, and a dozen other things would leave behind files on disk even if our code works perfectly.

Is it worth spending 30 min looking for a way on Windows to pass a file purely in memory? I know it can be done on *nix...
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 1, 2020*

> We should prob have tests that validate we clean up the file correctly, including in the face of a panic

I don't think this kind of testing is going to be very easy without introducing a potential avenue for bugs in terragrunt (I am nervous about injecting something in the pipeline to induce a panic intentionally)...

---

> Is it worth spending 30 min looking for a way on Windows to pass a file purely in memory? I know it can be done on *nix...

Ok will look into it, but it'll be a while before I'll have time available to set up my dev env on my windows boxes again.

---

Let's then just revert back to the original debug mode version (option 3) for now so that we can ship something useful to satisfy this need of terragrunt debugging, and we don't block that on my ability to dedicate free nights and weekends to work on this.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 1, 2020*

UPDATE: rebased on https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/1263 so that this PR will automatically become an extension of that branch when that is merged, so that we don't throw away the work here.
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 2, 2020*

> > We should prob have tests that validate we clean up the file correctly, including in the face of a panic
> 
> I don't think this kind of testing is going to be very easy without introducing a potential avenue for bugs in terragrunt (I am nervous about injecting something in the pipeline to induce a panic intentionally)...
> 
> > Is it worth spending 30 min looking for a way on Windows to pass a file purely in memory? I know it can be done on *nix...
> 
> Ok will look into it, but it'll be a while before I'll have time available to set up my dev env on my windows boxes again.
> 
> Let's then just revert back to the original debug mode version (option 3) for now so that we can ship something useful to satisfy this need of terragrunt debugging, and we don't block that on my ability to dedicate free nights and weekends to work on this.

Roger
***

**abeluck** commented *Sep 10, 2020*

Just wanted to drop a comment here thanking you for considering security in this case.

If terragrunt started writing secrets to disk we'd have to immediately stop using it.  We've stringent security policies in place that disallow secrets being written to plaintext on disk (even though the workstations/servers are full disk encrypted).... even for a few seconds.

It is common for workstation backup software to run in a continuous mode that constantly backs up changes to disk as they happen. So writing secrets to disk could easily result in them being swept into a backup archive somewhere.

That said, I'm definitely interested in the original motivation of this issue.
***

**lorengordon** commented *Jul 3, 2022*

To manage normal values vs secret values, could we maybe use two different inputs blocks, or a function? One input block would always write a tfvars file, the other would always export ENVs. Or check if that value is wrapped in the function, and exclude it from the tfvars and instead export it as an env...
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 30, 2023*

Closing as stale
***

