# Follow up to dependency optimization

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 26, 2020*

- Allow `remote_state` blocks without `generate` set by dynamically configuring `generate` just for the purpose of output fetching.

- Reclone terragrunt options in inner function to avoid global patching issues.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 26, 2020*

~There is a legitimate test failure in `TestDependencyOutputCachePathBug`. I'll need to dig in to figure out what caused this, but don't quite have the time at the moment. Will revisit later.~

This is now fixed.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 27, 2020*

UPDATE: 86c5604

This switches to disabling the dependency optimization by default. https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1318 worries me that this may silently break a bunch of workflows in the wild that depend on hooks and `extra_arguments` for `init`. Since it is a bit involved to refactor the code to allow setting these up in the dependency runtime, I decided that the lesser evil is to disable by default and make dependency optimization an opt-in feature. That way, at least it won't break existing workflows when naively upgrading to the latest version.

This does mean that users will need to set the flag to enable the optimization, but I hope that is relatively easy to do.
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 27, 2020*

Yori and I talked live and we're guessing that the type of issues mentioned in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1318 are probably fairly uncommon. They only affect:

1. Users of `dependency` blocks...
1. Who are also using `remote_state` blocks...
1. Who are also using `extra_arguments` or `hooks`...
1. And those `extra_arguments` or `hooks` affect the behavior of `init` in such a way that the `output` command behaves differently if `extra_arguments` or `hooks` were not executed.

I suspect this is a small minority of users. Given that everyone else benefits from this optimization, we're going to default to having it on, but offer a flag to shut it off in the rare cases it causes issues. 
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 27, 2020*

Thanks for review! Build passed so going to merge and release this now.
***

