# Hacky attempt at AWS Provider patching to help users work around Terraform bug

**brikis98** commented *Sep 1, 2020*

This PR adds an `aws-provider-patch` command that can be used to override attributes in nested `provider` blocks. This is an attempt at a hacky workaround for [a Terraform bug](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/13018) where `import` does not work if you are using any modules that have `provider` blocks nested in within them. With this PR, users could run:

```bash
terragrunt aws-provider-patch --terragrunt-override-attr region=eu-west-1
```

And Terragrunt will:

1. Run `terraform init` to download the code for all your modules into `.terraform/modules`.
1. Scan all the Terraform code in `.terraform/modules`, find AWS `provider` blocks, and hard-code the `region` param
   to `eu-west-1` for each one. 

Once you do this, you'll hopefully be able to run `import` on that module. After that, you can delete the modified `.terraform/modules` and go back to normal.

Note that I wanted to document this command somewhere, so I updated the CLI docs to include all Terragrunt commands, and not just options. Therefore, as a side effect, this PR also fixes #1306.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Sep 1, 2020*

I got the patching code working, but there's a bit of an issue: Terraform downloads modules into `.terraform/modules`, but it downloads the _entire_ repo into that folder, and not just a single module... So the patching code either:

1. Updates every file in the entire repo, which is wasteful, and potentially results in parsing files that perhaps shouldn't be parsed.
1. We have to parse `.terraform/modules/modules.json` to know exactly in which folders to look... But I'm not sure if that's a stable API we can rely on.
***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 1, 2020*

Update: I decided to bite the bullet and parse the `.terraform/modules/modules.json` format after all. Not sure of a better approach.

Note that I wanted to document this command somewhere, so I updated the CLI docs to include all Terragrunt commands, and not just options. Therefore, as a side effect, this PR also fixes #1306. I've updated the description of this PR as well, and I believe it's now ready for review.
***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 1, 2020*

Can I haz one more review plz? 😄 
***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 2, 2020*

Thanks for the review! Merging now.
***

