# Make Terragrunt recover from missing module and provider error

**kwilczynski** commented *Sep 10, 2020*

This change enables Terragrunt to detect errors that otherwise required the user to run "terraform init" and attempt a recovery by running Terraform automatically.

When a Terraform module or provider version changes or when a module or provider is missing and Terragrunt is invoked with an action other than "init" (e.g., plan, apply, etc.), then the Terraform run that has been started by Terragrunt will terminate with an error asking the user to run "terraform init" to reinitialize to fetch the missing runtime dependencies.

Terragrunt should detect these type of missing module and provider errors and automatically re-run "terraform init" to resolve them and retry the previous command automatically.

Signed-off-by: Krzysztof Wilczyński <kw@linux.com>
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Sep 10, 2020*

hahah, lol, race condition with Yori and Jim detected.
***

**kwilczynski** commented *Sep 10, 2020*

Hi @brikis98, thank you for the review thus far! Much appreciated.

There is another use-case I need to test this solution against - a more complex structure with nested sub-directories (when someone has complex infrastructure and their topology contains of a lot of different states being managed). Why? Because I need to verify how passing the `terragruntOptions.TerragruntConfigPath` to `terragruntOptions.Clone()` will influence execution in a more complex scenario.
***

**kwilczynski** commented *Sep 10, 2020*

Rebased against master.
***

**kwilczynski** commented *Sep 10, 2020*

Hi @brikis98 and @yorinasub17,

Apologies for a bit of commotion here.

This is a different approach - a simpler one. Without having to change or refactor too much.

Rather than calling `runTerragruntWithConfig()` recursively, which is also hard to work with (as per @brikis98's comment) and test, simply detect the need to run `terraform init` within `RunTerragrunt()` then set everything up and run it.

Should `terraform init` succeeds, then re-run the previous command as-is without changing any options, should it fail, then the Terragrunt run fails too (since errors propagation is straightforward in this case).

This approach also enabled support for normal retry mechanism should there be any issues that the `RETRYABLE_ERRORS` list would normally cover - this works for any command that was passed and when the extra interim `terraform init` is required.

There is also an option of wrapping things into `util.DoWithRetry()`, so that a whole flow of _a command_ then _terraform init_ then _a command_ (again) could be retried on errors at any point. Albeit, when this is done, then it looks slightly awkward from the user perspective as messages would suggest there were some errors at some point, etc. I wasn't fond of this approach.

Tests to follow.

Let me know what do you think?
***

**kwilczynski** commented *Sep 20, 2020*

Rebased against master.
***

**kwilczynski** commented *Sep 21, 2020*

Hi @yorinasub17, is there anything here left to be done?
***

**kwilczynski** commented *Sep 24, 2020*

Hi @yorinasub17 and @brikis98,

It appears that either Terraform release 0.13+ has a potential problem or the behaviour has changed at some point as per:

```bash
$ cat > main.tf
provider "null" {
    version = "2.1.1"
}
^D
$ terraform init

Initializing the backend...

Initializing provider plugins...
- Finding hashicorp/null versions matching "2.1.1"...
- Installing hashicorp/null v2.1.1...
- Installed hashicorp/null v2.1.1 (signed by HashiCorp)

Terraform has been successfully initialized!

You may now begin working with Terraform. Try running "terraform plan" to see
any changes that are required for your infrastructure. All Terraform commands
should now work.

If you ever set or change modules or backend configuration for Terraform,
rerun this command to reinitialize your working directory. If you forget, other
commands will detect it and remind you to do so if necessary.

$ cat > main.tf
provider "null" {
    version = "9.9.9"
}
^D

$ terraform apply -auto-approve
Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

$ terraform -version
Terraform v0.13.0
+ provider registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/null v2.1.1
```

This is not _quite_ what I would expect, and it breaks integration test, sadly.
***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 25, 2020*

Weird. That sounds like a bug.  Perhaps file one in the Terraform repo?

Also, for the integration test, what about switching the `source` URL of a `module` instead of the `provider` version?
***

**eahrend** commented *Sep 25, 2020*

Hey, I'm having this issue with updating to terraform 0.13. I'm just going into all my subdirectories with terragrunt.hcl files and re-init'ing them, which seems to work, albeit a bit time consuming. Having a init-all --force command that I can run from my root directory that would force a re-init would be useful.
***

