# Use the terragrunt download dir for generating the temporary workspace for dependency optimization

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 14, 2020*

Partially resolves https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1344

This works for `tfenv` under the default settings because the `terragrunt-cache` will be in the same directory as the terragrunt config, and thus will be in the right spot in the folder tree of `tfenv` terraform versions.

Note that this will NOT work if the download dir is configured to somewhere outside of the tree, but currently that flow breaks `tfenv` even under normal usage (because we don't copy hidden files and folders, so `.terraform-version` does not get copied over).
<br />
***


**Fran-ELS-AMS** commented *Sep 15, 2020*

As I also reported in #1344:

> It seems to be working perfectly.
> 
> I've tested with:
> - the system-wide `terraform` version for `tfenv` **unset**
> - the system-wide `terraform` version for `tfenv` **set to a version that's incompatible with the current version of `terragrunt` (`0.12.26`)**
> 
> Before each test I made sure to remove all `.terragrunt-cache` folders with:
> ```
> find . -type d -name ".terragrunt-cache" -prune -exec rm -rf {} \;
> ```
> Both tests were successful.
> 
> I then re-run both tests without removing the `.terragrunt-cache` folders, just in case, to test both cases.
> 
> Both tests were successful again.
> 
> The temporary directories, containing only the `backend.tf` file, get created (one each) in the `.terragrunt-cache` folder of each dependency for which `terragrunt` runs `terraform output -json` and it almost immediately gets removed, leaving behind an empty `.terragrunt-cache` folder.

LGTM
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 15, 2020*

Thanks for review! Will merge and release now.
***

