# Fix for s3 TF state bucket logs loop - issue 1333

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Oct 23, 2020*

This PR is aiming to fix this issue: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1333

- [x] Fix related bug (pre-existing) to this issue - [more details can be found here.](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/1399) Thanks to @yorinasub17 & @zackproser 
- [x] Decide what to do with `skip_bucket_access_logging` - do we deprecate or fix forward & replace with `enable_bucket_access_logging`)
    - see below in comments 
- [x] Implement `enable_bucket_access_logging` as bool to flip logic around - e.g. if not provided, by default the logging will be turned off for the bucket. _**Thanks to @infraredgirl**_
- [x] implement `enable_bucket_access_logging` as a string - if provided, we enable access logging for the bucket & use the string param as a name for the bucket; if not provided - disable access logging by default _**Thanks to @infraredgirl**_
- [x] implement create bucket for access logs if name is provided, but bucket does not exist yet
- ~[x] refactor for reausability the s3 create & set access methods~
- [x] refactor to avoid duplication `createS3BucketIfNecessary` & `CreateLogsS3BucketIfNecessary` - potentially we can pass function call as a param?
- [x] update/ add to automated tests
- [x] update logging so it's clear that a setting has been turned on:
      - `EnableVersioningForS3Bucket` (e.g. enabling..... -> enabled.....)
      - `EnableSSEForS3BucketWide`
      - `EnableAccessLoggingForS3BucketWide`
      - `EnablePublicAccessBlockingForS3Bucket`
      - `configureBucketAccessLoggingAcl`

<br />
***


**ina-stoyanova** commented *Oct 23, 2020*

[last-terragrunt-apply-output.txt](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/files/5430691/last-terragrunt-apply-output.txt)
☝️ this is the output of the code ran at the last commit state. 

All the logs are expected for the following terragrunt config:
```
# stage/terragrunt.hcl
remote_state {

  backend = "s3"
  generate = {
    path      = "backend.tf"
    if_exists = "overwrite_terragrunt"
  }

  config = {
    bucket = "ina-1"
    accesslogging_bucket_name = "ina-1-logs"
    key = "${path_relative_to_include()}/terraform.tfstate"
    region         = "eu-west-2"
    encrypt        = true
    dynamodb_table = "ina-1"
  }
}
```
***

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Oct 23, 2020*

- [x] Next steps to pick up:
- confirm we can still see the same behaviour as the logs above show
- confirm if param is not provided that S3 bucket for logs is not created
- confirm if we need to sanitise input for name of s3 bucket
- confirm what happens to `skip...` parameter
- refactor duplication between createS3 bucket methods (for logs, and for standard state bucket)
***

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Oct 26, 2020*

As part of this PR, the default behaviour of terragrunt's functionality to create the TF State S3 bucket will change. 

**- previous implementation:** create TF State S3 bucket with server access logging enabled & set to the origin (same) S3 bucket. _For more details, please read through https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1333, demonstrating why this is undesirable behaviour._  

**- new implementation with this PR:** create TF State S3 bucket with server access logging disabled. Terragrunt users will be able to enable server access logging for the TF State S3 bucket by providing a name for the desired logs target bucket. This can be done using the `accesslogging_bucket_name <string>` parameter in the `terragrunt.hcl` configuration of their implementation. 

In more detail:
- The `skip_bucket_accesslogging` terragrunt option is being deprecated. It's no longer going to take effect on the S3 bucket for TF state creation and logging configuration. 
- A new terragrunt configuration option is added: `accesslogging_bucket_name <string>`
    - states in the `terragrunt.hcl` configuration file
         - not present -> server access logging disabled by default for TF State S3 bucket
         - empty -> server access logging disabled by default for TF State S3 bucket
         - present (valid string) -> the server access logging for the TF State S3 bucket will be enabled; the target logging bucket will be the S3 bucket with name as specified by the configuration option value `accesslogging_bucket_name` 
              - if bucket with such name does not exist, the user will be prompted to create the S3 bucket.


Deprecating `skip_bucket_accesslogging`:

_We've got 3 options identified as to how to proceed. After chatting to @brikis98 we've decided it's best to go with a combination of **1** & **2**. Option 3 is the most ideal scenario one, and feels like it's outside of the scope of this PR currently. As a way to see what's the engagement/appetite for option 3, [here's an issue raised on the Terragrunt repo](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1403). _

1. basic option - remove the flag & update the docs & release notes 
2. we detect the param - show error & provide guidance 
3. warn people of existing bug & point them to fix it/or we automatically fix it for them (existing buckets)

***

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Oct 27, 2020*

Tests have been updated very little. The reasoning is, the important thing is that the terraform state is initialised using s3 backend. I couldn't find any other examples of the other config options being tested. 

For the `accesslogging_bucket_name` config option, it feels like the effort to automate the testing of it will be more than the value of it would actually bring. I'm happy to take guidance if anyone feels strongly we should have the tests cover this explicitly. If that's the direction we take, I'd suggest doing it separately, so we can also test the rest of the properties alongside with this one, which would increase the test confidence in what the `terraform init` will affect if run with terragrunt. 

I have tested manually the following cases:
- not providing `accesslogging_bucket_name` => ✅
- providing the value `accesslogging_bucket_name` => ✅ 
- providing incorrect S3 name for the bucket => ✅ 
- providing `accesslogging_bucket_name` as incorrect type of input => ✅ 
- keeping the `skip_bucket_accesslogging` => ✅ 
- providing value (bool) for the `skip_bucket_accesslogging` => ✅ 

***

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Oct 28, 2020*

I've not also gone ahead and added a new integration test as suggested @yorinasub17. This is still [WIP] as I needed to touch `terratest` as such functionality wasn't there yet. [Please see this Draft PR. ](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest/pull/689)

I'm worrying that by touching terratest as part of this, it might be a bit of a scope creep, but the changes seem quite quick anyway. What's your take on this?
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Oct 28, 2020*

> What's your take on this?

You can always start by having the function as a private function in the repo that will use it (in this case `terragrunt`), and then add a comment or file a TODO to port it to terratest. Even better if you start the PR in terratest (like you did here) so that we are less likely to forget it.

The main goal here is to disassociate merging this in from the terratest PR so that they can be released at different times. That way, if you end up in a massive yak shave to generalize the function or we have extended conversations about whether or not the function makes sense in terratest, it doesn't block this PR.
***

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Oct 28, 2020*

@yorinasub17 Have a look at the issue I've created [here](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1404) for the purposes of the discussion in [your comment ](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/1400#discussion_r513017599)
***

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Oct 28, 2020*

> > What's your take on this?
> 
> You can always start by having the function as a private function in the repo that will use it (in this case `terragrunt`), and then add a comment or file a TODO to port it to terratest. Even better if you start the PR in terratest (like you did here) so that we are less likely to forget it.
> 
> The main goal here is to disassociate merging this in from the terratest PR so that they can be released at different times. That way, if you end up in a massive yak shave to generalize the function or we have extended conversations about whether or not the function makes sense in terratest, it doesn't block this PR.

Roger that! Thanks for the support!

So, I just pushed the last bit of changes I've added to this repo, but so far the test is not proving anything, as it points to the not yet implemented function in Terratest.

Do you suggest that I implement a temp function using the s3client in terragrunt & get the test passing, or is leaving it as a commented TODO like you've pointed out enough?


***

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Oct 30, 2020*

Some new commits here. Another review when possible would be very welcome 👀 🙂 
***

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Oct 30, 2020*

Thank you @brikis98 🎉 

I think the reasoning we agreed on with @yorinasub17 was to not necessarily wait on the terratest, as that might be a yak shave, as it's turning out. I'll release this first thing on Monday, and then keep as a priority to close the terratest PR too. 
***

