# Fix CircleCI Contexts

**zackproser** commented *Nov 20, 2020*

This pull request was programmatically opened by the multi-repo-updater program. It should be adding the 'Gruntwork Admin' context to any Workflows -> Jobs nodes and should also be leaving the rest of the .circleci/config.yml file alone. 

 This PR was opened so that all our repositories' .circleci/config.yml files can be converted to use the same CircleCI context, which will make rotating secrets much easier in the future.
<br />
***


**lorengordon** commented *Nov 21, 2020*

> This pull request was programmatically opened by the multi-repo-updater program

Ok, intrigued... What is the multi-repo-updater program?
***

**brikis98** commented *Nov 23, 2020*

> > This pull request was programmatically opened by the multi-repo-updater program
> 
> Ok, intrigued... What is the multi-repo-updater program?

We wrote a script that can:

1. Check out all of our repos (or a specified subset).
1. Make some changes in that repo. Currently, we are using it to update CircleCi config files in all the repos, but we'll hopefully expand that to do other tasks later.
1. If there were changes, commit them to a branch, and open a PR.

If we can polish this code up a bit, we may release it more broadly.
***

**lorengordon** commented *Nov 23, 2020*

@brikis98 very interesting! we definitely have a similar use case. maintaining CI configs over hundreds of repos is a struggle!

> If we can polish this code up a bit, we may release it more broadly.


***

**brikis98** commented *Nov 23, 2020*

> @brikis98 very interesting! we definitely have a similar use case. maintaining CI configs over hundreds of repos is a struggle!

It is indeed a struggle! We'll announce when this tool is widely available. May take some time, as right now, it's in "internal prototype" status, but it helps to know others are interested!
***

**zackproser** commented *Nov 24, 2020*

> LGTM!

Thanks for reviewing!
***

