# Support Custom STS Endpoint For Built-In Functions

**jonwinton** commented *Jan 18, 2021*

Aiming to fix https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1485

Terragrunt can't pull a custom STS endpoint from Terraform configuration because the built-in helper functions (like `get_aws_account_id`) run before the Terraform code is parsed. Since the AWS Go SDK doesn't provide a way to override endpoints with any environment variables, we have to define a custom endpoint when creating a session.

This PR adds a config flag (`--terragrunt-sts-endpoint`) that is passed to the call to STS for the helper functions. I wasn't quite sure what to name the flag, so I went with something similar to `--terragrunt-iam-role`. Happy to update/change anything as necessary.

Thanks!
<br />
***


**gflarity** commented *Jan 25, 2021*

Can we get this reviewed? We'd love to use this and don't want to maintain a fork. 
***

**jonwinton** commented *Jan 28, 2021*

Sorry for the delay, I'll try and address everything in the next day or two. Thanks for the review!
***

**jonwinton** commented *Jan 29, 2021*

@brikis98 I realized that a majority of this logic was being replicated in the `CreateAwsSession` method in that same file, so I moved the session creation to leverage what was already there. Here's the commit with the change: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/1497/commits/23d1290ad728bdb19e9f15564a8c3508c4e67350

I'm wondering if you think this is an ok approach? I was thinking we could keep all the AWS session logic confined to a single place so there's less to reason about. 

Regarding the questions you asked before:

> Should this entire block only happen if terragruntOptions.StsEndpoint != ""?

Yep! We want the SDK to use the default endpoint for STS unless we're explicitly opting into a new endpoint. 

> This logic should probably be extracted into a NewSession method.

Using `CreateAwsSession` hopefully resolves this!

> Is it possible to add a test for this logic?

I'll look at adding testing for all of this if you think the approach is sound!
***

**jonwinton** commented *Feb 11, 2021*

@brikis98 sorry for the delay, but I think I've it to a point for review. I ran into some issues trying to test the entire `CreateAwsSession` function because it requires credentials for AWS, so I moved the custom resolver into its own function so we could test that logic alone ([see this commit](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/1497/commits/5b5edf626e8cad44bfd7f04a03e46c6d70f147fd))

Hopefully this approach works for you, but happy to incorporate any feedback. Thanks!
***

**jonwinton** commented *Feb 22, 2021*

@brikis98 bumping this! We're trying to get a local Terragrunt workflow going and are hoping to see if this can get merged soon! Appreciate all the help!
***

**jonwinton** commented *Mar 1, 2021*

@brikis98 no worries at all, your time on this is appreciated!

The changes in you called out are made, so hopefully it's good to go! 
***

**krisdevopsbot** commented *Mar 19, 2021*

I built a version of this some an issue we were having - would it be possible to make a slight change?

```
// (optional), ensuring that the credentials are available
func CreateAwsSession(config *AwsSessionConfig, terragruntOptions *options.TerragruntOptions) (*session.Session, error) {
	customResolverFn := createCustomResolver(&AwsSessionConfig{
		CustomStsEndpoint: terragruntOptions.StsEndpoint,
	})
```

That way all the other uses of sts (i.e. remote s3 state) also use the custom endpoint?

I believe there's an dynamo one in there with the latest changes that would require adding those to the config as well to resolve.
***

**lopezm1** commented *Jan 14, 2023*

Bump, @jonwinton and @krisdevopsbot appreciate your initial work on this.

Running into this myself, was wondering if either of you found an alternative solution or could we maybe pick this back up? I could help if needed.
***

**lopezm1** commented *Jan 17, 2023*

@jonwinton Going to spend this week reviving your PR.

Will re-create the PR and assume this one is dead. Really appreciate your initial work on it.
***

**jonwinton** commented *Jan 17, 2023*

@lopezm1 just saw these comments, but sounds good!
***

