# Add support for AssumeRole for DynamoDB locks and S3 remote state

**npepinpe** commented *Mar 13, 2017*

As it says, adds basic support for aws_role_arn (DynamoDB config) and role_arn (S3 remote state config), similar to the terraform AWS provider.

I realise it's not particularly well tested, but reading through the current tests, I was unsure about the way to go there. I'm nowhere near a Go expert, so I'll defer to your judgement, and gladly make any necessary adjustments.
<br />
***


**npepinpe** commented *Mar 16, 2017*

Some of the integration tests are failing at the moment, mostly related to includes, I'll update with the test output once I get them all to pass. I'm also not sure if to add integration tests for this case, as there are none currently for the profile either. Not sure what the right approach would be.
***

**brikis98** commented *Mar 16, 2017*

> Some of the integration tests are failing at the moment, mostly related to includes, I'll update with the test output once I get them all to pass. 

Ah, let me know when you have that sorted.

> I'm also not sure if to add integration tests for this case, as there are none currently for the profile either. Not sure what the right approach would be.

It would be great to add integration tests for this, but you'd probably have to dynamically generate IAM roles and then clean them up after to make it work... I'm not sure on the best approach for that.
***

**brikis98** commented *May 27, 2017*

@npepinpe This PR would need some serious rebasing, as Terragrunt no longer manages locking by itself since Terraform v0.9 came out. I'm going to close this one for now, but please reopen if you have a chance to revisit this stuff.
***

