# follow symlinks for path_relative_to_include

**Patricol** commented *Feb 13, 2021*

Closes #543

My use case involves wanting to prefix terragrunt dirs with numbers to make the stage order obvious, generate state keys based on path to ensure uniqueness, and use a fair number of `terraform_remote_state` objects.

Reordering or inserting stages is a time-consuming process involving moving many different state files, adjusting `terraform_remote_state` objects, and renaming folders.

Also, `cd`ing isn't as frictionless as it could be; with the extra often 0-padded prefixes.

Creating numbered symlinks to the terragrunt dirs (but having terragrunt ignore those symlinks) would be an ideal solution.

Things to consider:
- I think `path_relative_to_include` should take a boolean argument if possible; defaulting to the old behavior but allowing the use of this behavior.
- Should this be done for `path_relative_from_include` too?
- Haven't yet tested. Especially if not implementing the bool toggle; need to see how this behaves when a relative include path is valid from one but not both of the real and symlinked directories.
- Is it alright that this runs `filepath.Clean` on the path too?
<br />
***


**Patricol** commented *Feb 22, 2021*

@brikis98 @yorinasub17 

Happy to work on this more if I get confirmation that the 'help wanted' tag on #543 is still accurate. (Maybe after >2 years the change is no longer desired?)
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 22, 2021*

@Patricol Sorry for the delay. We are super, super buried right now. The PR is very much appreciated and we'll review it as soon as we can!
***

**brikis98** commented *Mar 29, 2021*

Thanks for the PR and your patience as we got around to reviewing it!

> Things to consider:
> 
> * I think `path_relative_to_include` should take a boolean argument if possible; defaulting to the old behavior but allowing the use of this behavior.

Unless you know of a specific use case where the current approach would break as a result, I'd rather avoid extra flags / branches.

> * Should this be done for `path_relative_from_include` too?

Yes, probably.

> * Is it alright that this runs `filepath.Clean` on the path too?

Sure.

Note that for symlinks to work, we may also need to solve https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1611.
***

