# Allow skipping parsing of locals

**amnk** commented *Feb 18, 2021*

Allow skipping parsing of locals

Since `locals` can have side effects, we might run into cases when we don't need to pasre them. One example is `checkVersionConstraints()`, which is executed early on and relies on parsing HCL.

Fixes #1427
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 25, 2021*

Had a thought (NOTE: haven't had a chance to review this yet, but wanted to share some thoughts on the approach):

Would this be resolved if we memoize the run_cmd function call? That is, we cache the results in memory, and return the cached results when it is called with the same parameters? That seems like it would avoid changing the availability of locals, while solving the problem of the external side effect being called multiple times.
***

**amnk** commented *Feb 25, 2021*

> Had a thought (NOTE: haven't had a chance to review this yet, but wanted to share some thoughts on the approach):
> 
> Would this be resolved if we memoize the run_cmd function call? That is, we cache the results in memory, and return the cached results when it is called with the same parameters? That seems like it would avoid changing the availability of locals, while solving the problem of the external side effect being called multiple times.

@yorinasub17 I was thinking about that, but in the end decided that ordering might be an issue here (e.g. someone might expect them to be executed later after applying some state). But still, it is a good idea, and we can implement it and document a warning.
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 26, 2021*

> Had a thought (NOTE: haven't had a chance to review this yet, but wanted to share some thoughts on the approach):
> 
> Would this be resolved if we memoize the run_cmd function call? That is, we cache the results in memory, and return the cached results when it is called with the same parameters? That seems like it would avoid changing the availability of locals, while solving the problem of the external side effect being called multiple times.

Doesn't that assume that `run_cmd` would never have side effects? E.g., If you had `run_cmd("date")`, you'd expect different results each time that appeared in your `terragrunt.hcl`. 
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 26, 2021*

> in the end decided that ordering might be an issue here (e.g. someone might expect them to be executed later after applying some state)

We don't make any promises on when `run_cmd` runs (as it is a function that is executed on parsing of the config), so I don't think this is a concern. For the use case where you need precise ordering, you should be using `before_hook` and `after_hook`, which has more precise timing on when the command is called.

> Doesn't that assume that run_cmd would never have side effects? E.g., If you had run_cmd("date"), you'd expect different results each time that appeared in your terragrunt.hcl.

I think we can mitigate that by memoizing on the source file diagnostics (where the function call appears).

That said, I can't really come up with any use case where this is the case and the args are exactly the same. Furthermore, it seems like you can easily workaround it by wrapping it in a bash script that accepts a nonce-arg for cache busting, unlike the current challenge where you can't workaround avoiding two calls to `run_cmd`.
***

**brikis98** commented *Mar 1, 2021*

> > Doesn't that assume that run_cmd would never have side effects? E.g., If you had run_cmd("date"), you'd expect different results each time that appeared in your terragrunt.hcl.
> 
> I think we can mitigate that by memoizing on the source file diagnostics (where the function call appears).

Ah, that's a great idea. Yea, let's go with this approach then 👍  @amnk Could you implement this?

> 
> That said, I can't really come up with any use case where this is the case and the args are exactly the same. Furthermore, it seems like you can easily workaround it by wrapping it in a bash script that accepts a nonce-arg for cache busting, unlike the current challenge where you can't workaround avoiding two calls to `run_cmd`.

Just because we can't think of it, doesn't mean there's no use case for it, and while I agree that it's better to fix this dual-execution issue, I'd rather do so without introducing a _new_ issue. Sounds like the memoization approach based on source file diagnostics accomplishes both, so I think we're good to go here.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Mar 1, 2021*

> Ah, that's a great idea. Yea, let's go with this approach then 👍 @amnk Could you implement this?

Ugh I just took a quick scan, and I don't think we have this information to implement it in the function. I thought there might be a way to hook in the parser in the implementation function, but it doesn't look like you have anyway to get the diagnostics...

It looks like the error reporting works to wrap the error from the function implementation. That is, the function caller has the info, but it won't pass it through to the implementation function so there is no way to look it up.

So we may not be able to implement this...


> Just because we can't think of it, doesn't mean there's no use case for it, and while I agree that it's better to fix this dual-execution issue, I'd rather do so without introducing a new issue. Sounds like the memoization approach based on source file diagnostics accomplishes both, so I think we're good to go here.

Given above, we might have to go with memoizing on filename (source file), command, and args if we take the memoization approach.

I want to make one more case for why I think introducing this specific new issue is better than the new issue introduced by alternative locals parsing, where you can't use locals in certain sections of the code where you could before).

The new issue we introduce (where it won't call the same command twice in a single call, in a single file) can be worked around in the following different ways:

- You can split each call you want to make into separate `hcl` files that get read in with `read_terragrunt_config`. This should be doable if we memoize on the `filename` property, which is available when constructing the eval context, and AFAIK, this `filename` should be updated correctly by the `read_terragrunt_config` function.

- You can add a nonce arg to each `run_cmd` call. This requires updating the run cmd call to use a wrapper script that ignores the nonce arg, but it does workaround the issue by cache busting within the file. In fact, I personally think this is better practice since it makes explicit that the command is intentionally called multiple times.

Contrast to the new issue we introduce by going with this current implementation, where we skip parsing locals for certain use cases. The new issue of avoiding locals parsing is that we won't be able to use `locals` for version constraints. The workaround for this is to use json files directly with `file` and `jsondecode`, or call `read_terragrunt_config` directly to DRY. This means that if you have nested or complex data files, you can potentially have a fairly long and complex interpolation in the version constraint, since you can't break it down into multiple steps with locals like you can now.

Personally, I think the workaround in the former issue actually has more advantages of making your code clearer, and is probably preferred in terms of how code should be written in terragrunt. I also think the memoization is likely going to easier to maintain and understand from an implementation perspective going forward.
***

**brikis98** commented *Mar 1, 2021*

Fine by me 👍 
***

