# add getTerragruntSource helper function

**suhussai** commented *Mar 6, 2021*


<br />
***


**suhussai** commented *Mar 12, 2021*

Hi brikis98, thanks for reviewing!

Regarding your questions, I added the new function to the list of internal functions in the documentation and provided some information on what the function will return. I'm not sure what the use case for this might be. I'll ask in the original issue for more clarification.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Mar 12, 2021*

@brikis98 

> Describe the use case for this

The main use case for this is to adjust the terragrunt configuration depending on whether its local development or not (`--terragrunt-source` was passed in). This came up in one of our support tickets, where a customer wanted to run `terraform fmt` as a before hook whenever you ran against local source during development. I can see other use cases for this as well:

- Setting debug logging when local dev.
- Adjusting the kubernetes provider configuration so that it targets minikube instead of real clusters.
- Providing special mocks pulled in from the local dev source (e.g., something like `mock_outputs = jsondecode(file("${get_terragrunt_source_cli_arg()}/dependency_mocks/vpc.json"))`).
***

**brikis98** commented *Mar 15, 2021*

> @brikis98
> 
> > Describe the use case for this
> 
> The main use case for this is to adjust the terragrunt configuration depending on whether its local development or not (`--terragrunt-source` was passed in). This came up in one of our support tickets, where a customer wanted to run `terraform fmt` as a before hook whenever you ran against local source during development. I can see other use cases for this as well:
> 
> * Setting debug logging when local dev.
> * Adjusting the kubernetes provider configuration so that it targets minikube instead of real clusters.
> * Providing special mocks pulled in from the local dev source (e.g., something like `mock_outputs = jsondecode(file("${get_terragrunt_source_cli_arg()}/dependency_mocks/vpc.json"))`).

Roger, thx for the explanation! May be worth adding to the docs!
***

**suhussai** commented *Mar 18, 2021*

Added use cases to the docs for `get_terragrunt_source_cli_flag()`.

Let me know if there's anything else I can add.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Mar 24, 2021*

Build passed, so going to merge this in! Thanks for your contribution!
***

