# Features/new remote state support

**jocgir** commented *Apr 6, 2017*

Hi, here is our proposition to add support for terraform 0.9.0+.

Basically, we inject a temporary file into the current folder with the required terraform 0.9+ configuration to support the new remote state format. We rely on tarraform init instead of terraform remote for new versions.

The temporary file is always generated based on the terragrunt configuration.

The code continue to support oldest terraform versions.

Comments are welcome.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Apr 7, 2017*

@jocgir Thank you for putting this PR together. I'm very grateful to see someone pitching in with this important upgrade :)

I'm a bit concerned with the approach of generating a file on the fly. Here's why:

1. It's a bit messy. A random file will pop in and out, which will be confusing to users, and problematic if due to a bug, crash, or some other reason, the file gets left behind.

1. It's not clear what the migration path is for getting users to move to Terraform 0.9 backends. I'd prefer that users actually define the backends in their config, but can still somehow take advantage of Terragrunt's other features (e.g. the `path_relative_to_include` helper). That way, as Terraform improves backends even more, we can gradually phase that aspect of Terragrunt out completely. 

We discussed all of this in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/158 and [this comment in particular](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/158#issuecomment-290787745) has an interesting way to accomplish this by piggybacking on the `terraform init` command.
***

**jocgir** commented *Apr 7, 2017*

@brikis98, I agree that generating file (and mostly put it in the code folder) is not the ideal way. It would be preferable if terraform allowed us to add a .tf file through args like -var-file. I took the precaution to ensure the file is cleaned up in case of most crashes or interrupts, but you are right, the file can still be left behind in some occasion. In most terragrunt use case, the inserted file is added to the temporary folder (when using source in terragrunt config). So the file is not added directly to the original folder.

The idea was inspired by the piggybacking one. I did that originally, but it required a «more» complex deployment on user setup, so I preferred to put it directly into the terragrunt executable.

I am not sure to understand your second concern. I felt that this technique allowed users to move to Terraform 0.9 whenever they are ready. When users install terraform 0.9, they get a warning and they can decide if they want to keep the lecacy way (which will be supported until 0.11) or move to the new backend. However, once they move to the new format, the whole team has to move together since the tfstate is not backward compatible.
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 8, 2017*

> I am not sure to understand your second concern. I felt that this technique allowed users to move to Terraform 0.9 whenever they are ready.

To clarify what I mean, consider what a user would have to do with the file generation strategy: they would have to pick between stick with Terragrunt for remote state management and not using the new Terraform format OR they can move to the new format, but then they lose access to Terragrunt features such as the `path_relative_to_include` helper. 

As discussed in #158 (make sure to read the comments too), Terraform's backends + locking are missing many features that were available in Terragrunt, so ideally, the migration strategy would let you start using as much of the Terraform 0.9 functionality as possible, while still using Terragrunt for pieces here and there.
***

**jocgir** commented *Apr 8, 2017*

Hi @brikis98, be assured that I read all comments prior to make this PR.

I am not sure that you understood what this code is doing. In all cases, the users stick with all advantages of using terragrunt. But, when they move to the new terraform format, terragrunt simply add temporary terraform configuration to match the one that is configured in the terragrunt section which still benefits of the `path_relative_to_include` and others helpers. They don't have to change a single line of code or loose any of terragrunt functionality.

The @tamsky wrapper trick is also possible (instead of generating a file on the fly), but it have to be OS aware. We cannot presume that bash or any other sh is available on user system. We work in a mixed team (OSX, Linux and Windows). To make it work, we can set the `TERRAGRUNT_TFPATH`, redirecting call to terragrunt itself to handle the remote to init conversion, then, unset the variable and make the actual terraform call. We can also generate a shell script in a temp folder, but we have to handle multiple os, i.e. .bat or .ps1 on Windows. It is also possible to add a Go terraform wrapper companion to terragrunt which would be portable, but that seems a little overkill for a simple args conversion problem. Moreover, I realized that this trick is not working with many terraform calls, while mine is always working. Just try other terraform command like `terraform state list` or `terraform console` to see the limitation.

Another advantage of this technique is that the terragrunt lock mechanism is still working and supersede the terraform one. Once we have the lock, it is unlikely that terraform would not be able to get its own.
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 8, 2017*

@jocgir 

Let me try to explain what I was thinking of as a transition.

Initially, Terragrunt users have their remote state configured in a `terraform.tfvars` file:

```hcl
terragrunt = {
  remote_state {
    backend = "s3"
    config {
      encrypt = "true"
      bucket = "my-bucket"
      key = "${path_relative_to_include()}"
      region = "us-east-1"
    }
  }
}
```

To use the new version of Terragrunt with Terraform 0.9, the only thing they should have to change is to add the following somewhere in their `.tf` files:

```hcl
terraform {
  backend "s3" {}
}
```

With the above configuration, when you run `terragrunt XXX`, Terragrunt would, the first time, do the following:

```
terraform init \
  -backend-config=encrypt=true \
  -backend-config=bucket=my-bucket \
  -backend-config=key=(some computed value) \
  -backend-config=region=us-east-1
```

There are no bash scripts involved.  No files to auto-generate and clean up. Just piggy back on the `init` command and pass the values using the `-backend-config` option.

Does that make sense?
***

**jocgir** commented *Apr 10, 2017*

Hi @brikis98, that could work. I didn't realized that init with args was enough to store the configuration and that it was not necessary to provision the terraform - backend section to make it work on further calls.
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 20, 2017*

@jocgir Thank you for the PR. I ended up implementing the approach I mentioned in #167, so I'm going to close this one.
***

