# Add new get_original_terragrunt_dir() helper

**brikis98** commented *Apr 9, 2021*

`get_original_terragrunt_dir()` returns the directory where the original Terragrunt configuration file (by default 
`terragrunt.hcl`) lives. This is primarily useful when one Terragrunt config is being read from another: e.g., if 
`/terraform-code/terragrunt.hcl` calls `read_terragrunt_config("/foo/bar.hcl")`, and within `bar.hcl`, you call 
`get_original_terragrunt_dir()`, you'll get back `/terraform-code`.

@yorinasub17 This was part of my hack day project. I'll post more info on this in Slack shortly.

**Note**: this PR originally was a one-liner that changed the behavior of `get_terragrunt_dir()`, but I decided that led to some unintuitive file path behavior in files read via `read_terragrunt_config()`, and that a separate, explicit `get_original_terragrunt_dir()` function handled this requirement more clearly.
<br />
***


**ghostinushanka** commented *Apr 9, 2021*

@brikis98 Hi.
As a matter of unbelievable coincidence I was looking into the possibility to introduce the `get_child_terragrunt_dir()` literally for the past hour or so, saw that there was a context switching in `readTerragruntConfig` and decided to poke around the repo.

Can I suggest to unify the naming to `get_parent_terragrunt_dir()` and `get_child_terragrunt_dir()`, due to the fact that in documentation for `include` relation is explained in these terms?
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 9, 2021*

> @brikis98 Hi.
> As a matter of unbelievable coincidence I was looking into the possibility to introduce the `get_child_terragrunt_dir()` literally for the past hour or so, saw that there was a context switching in `readTerragruntConfig` and decided to poke around the repo.
> 
> Can I suggest to unify the naming to `get_parent_terragrunt_dir()` and `get_child_terragrunt_dir()`, due to the fact that in documentation for `include` relation is explained in these terms?

Hm, I don't think this has anything to do with `include`... The change in this PR is solely related to usage with `read_terragrunt_config()`. Or am I misunderstanding you?
***

**ghostinushanka** commented *Apr 9, 2021*

Documentation is quite confusing for when you intend to both `include` and `read_terragrunt_config` same file from the module.
I was researching a way to create "global level variables", that is - "locals" in the "main" Terragrunt file that behave consistently when that file is "imported" both ways.

***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 9, 2021*

Ah, I gotcha. Well, FWIW, `get_original_terragrunt_dir` should behave as expected with `include` as well. 
***

**ghostinushanka** commented *Apr 9, 2021*

Here's a specific example.
`terragrunt.hcl` (main)
```
locals {
  # will contain e.g. "tenants/company_name/dev/aws/aurora/auth"
  relative_path = trimprefix(
    get_child_terragrunt_dir(),
    get_parent_terragrunt_dir()
  )

  # will contain e.g. ["tenants", "company_name", "dev", "aurora", "auth"]
  rpl = split("/", local.relative_path)

  path_struct = [
    "tenant_home_dir",
    "tenant_name",
    "tenant_environment",
    "deployment_target",
    "tenant_module",
    "tenant_module_purpose",
  ]

  # will contain e.g.
  #  {
  #    "tenant_home_dir":       "tenants",
  #    "tenant_name":           "company_name",
  #    "tenant_environment":    "dev",
  #    "deployment_target":     "aws",
  #    "tenant_module":         "aurora",
  #    "tenant_module_purpose": "auth"
  #  }
  tenant_config = { for i in range(length(local.path_struct))
    : local.path_struct[i]
    => i < length(local.rpl) ? local.rpl[i] : ""
  }

# [...]
# global generate blocks, remote state etc
```

`terragrunt.hcl` (module)
```
include {
  path = find_in_parent_folders()
}

locals {
  main = read_terragrunt_config(find_in_parent_folders())["locals"]
}
```
This will allow to reuse e.g. `tenant_config` from main in the module without having to redo the whole operation again and will make sure that the contents will be the same in both the "main" and "module".

So yeah, you basically did I planned to. Except for the name.
In any case ðŸ‘ 
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 12, 2021*

> Update LGTM! Minor nit: consider adding a regression test for the `run-all` case.

Added: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/1637/commits/c6fdac1c4ef19c38c8fe3feddf19cebe8b925f84
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 12, 2021*

I also updated the way we `Clone` for dependencies, and added tests for same: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/1637/commits/671ca7f593af1b4bc69f745b98d0394b3e963f85
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 12, 2021*

This needs a re-review plz!
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 12, 2021*

Thanks for the review! Merging now.
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 13, 2021*

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.28.21
***

**dudicoco** commented *Apr 13, 2021*

@brikis98 thank you for the added functionality.

Does this resolve issues with relative paths when using `read_terragrunt_config`? See https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1301.

Also, @yorinasub17 stated in the linked issue that there is a major bug with using dependencies in `read_terragrunt_config`, is that still the case?


***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 15, 2021*

> Does this resolve issues with relative paths when using `read_terragrunt_config`? See #1301.

The default behavior of `read_terragrunt_config` is unchanged, but you can use this new `get_original_terragrunt_dir()` as a way to change the behavior.

> Also, @yorinasub17 stated in the linked issue that there is a major bug with using dependencies in `read_terragrunt_config`, is that still the case?

That is also unchanged.
***

**dudicoco** commented *Apr 15, 2021*

Thanks @brikis98.

I've tested `get_original_terragrunt_dir` together with `read_terragrunt_config` and it did solve the relative paths issue.

Are there any plans on fixing the bug when using dependencies in `read_terragrunt_config`? 
The docs specify that `read_terragrunt_config`  can be used with dependency blocks, if that is not the case should the docs be adjusted accordingly?
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 16, 2021*

Most likely plan is to implement `imports` at some point, but I'm not sure when yet: https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/rfc/imports/ 
***

**dudicoco** commented *Apr 21, 2021*

@brikis98 since it seems like `imports` won't happen any time soon (understandable due to limited time/resources), perhaps it would be possible to fix the issue with the current `read_terragrunt_config` feature?
Adding that fix would allow us to make the `terragrunt.hcl` files totally DRY across the stack.
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 21, 2021*

It's hard to know without doing the work, but our current guess is that fixing the issue in `read_terragrunt_config` may actually be harder than implementing `imports`!
***

