# Restrict Locals Evaluation with Include Dirs

**celestialorb** commented *Apr 17, 2021*

This PR is an attempt to address #1640.

We have a Terragrunt project that has a rather large number of modules (close to the order of 100) and we've noticed that Terragrunt is very slow to start when using the `run-all` command. This was discovered to be due to the fact that Terragrunt is running over all modules in the working directory and evaluating their locals, which was causing a few modules to be initialized during this phase as some locals were/are referencing dependencies.

It was discovered that this behavior is the same even when specifying `--terragrunt-strict-include`. It is my belief that Terragrunt shouldn't need to evaluate locals of any modules outside of those specified in the `--terragrunt-include-dir` flags (and subsequent module dependencies).

This PR attempts to resolve this by changing the implementation of `FindConfigFilesInPath` under the `config` package, which originally walks over the entire working directory looking for Terragrunt modules. The implementation has been changed to only walk over the directories specified by `--terragrunt-include-dir` flags. Two tests have been added to the test suite to test these changes.

I have verified that all tests pass under the `config` package with these changes, and I have also tested the build with these changes on our large Terragrunt project and can see significant startup time improvement.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Apr 26, 2021*

@yorinasub17 I think you may be best to review this one.
***

**celestialorb** commented *Apr 26, 2021*

Believe I have found a small issue with the code in this PR, will take a look a bit later and see if I can address it. Reverting this PR to draft/WIP status for now.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Apr 27, 2021*

This implementation makes sense to me, and would also provide a workaround for https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1033

@celestialorb please `@` mention me when this PR is ready for formal review!
***

**celestialorb** commented *Apr 29, 2021*

@yorinasub17 This is ready for a formal review again. I was right about the small issue I mentioned previously in that this original implementation did not account for globs in the `--terragrunt-include-dir` flags. I have added another small test case and re-implemented `FindInConfigFiles` with the use of `zglob.Glob` to account for this.

A small oddity I encountered is that the ordering of the file paths returned by `zglob.Glob` didn't seem to be determinate, so I added a sort function to the end of `FindInConfigFiles`, which meant that I had to reorder the expected results of a few test cases. I'm assuming the ordering of the file paths returned by `FindInConfigFiles` has no effect and thus does not matter.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Apr 29, 2021*

Ah looks like the build failed for `TestIncludeDirsStrict` (in `test` folder). Here are the test logs:

```
%~> go test -v -run TestIncludeDirsStrict$ .                                                                                                                                                                    [0]
=== RUN   TestIncludeDirsStrict
=== PAUSE TestIncludeDirsStrict
=== CONT  TestIncludeDirsStrict
    integration_test.go:3251: [TestIncludeDirsStrict] Full contents of validate-all stdout:
    integration_test.go:3254: [TestIncludeDirsStrict]
    integration_test.go:3251: [TestIncludeDirsStrict] Full contents of validate-all stderr:
    integration_test.go:3254: [TestIncludeDirsStrict]
    integration_test.go:4089:
                Error Trace:    integration_test.go:4089
                                                        integration_test.go:1964
                Error:          Received unexpected error:
                                Could not find any subfolders with Terragrunt configuration files
                Test:           TestIncludeDirsStrict
--- FAIL: TestIncludeDirsStrict (0.00s)
FAIL
FAIL    github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/test 2.781s
FAIL
```
***

**celestialorb** commented *Apr 29, 2021*

> Ah looks like the build failed for `TestIncludeDirsStrict` (in `test` folder). Here are the test logs:
> 
> ```
> %~> go test -v -run TestIncludeDirsStrict$ .                                                                                                                                                                    [0]
> === RUN   TestIncludeDirsStrict
> === PAUSE TestIncludeDirsStrict
> === CONT  TestIncludeDirsStrict
>     integration_test.go:3251: [TestIncludeDirsStrict] Full contents of validate-all stdout:
>     integration_test.go:3254: [TestIncludeDirsStrict]
>     integration_test.go:3251: [TestIncludeDirsStrict] Full contents of validate-all stderr:
>     integration_test.go:3254: [TestIncludeDirsStrict]
>     integration_test.go:4089:
>                 Error Trace:    integration_test.go:4089
>                                                         integration_test.go:1964
>                 Error:          Received unexpected error:
>                                 Could not find any subfolders with Terragrunt configuration files
>                 Test:           TestIncludeDirsStrict
> --- FAIL: TestIncludeDirsStrict (0.00s)
> FAIL
> FAIL    github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/test 2.781s
> FAIL
> ```

Seems this is stemming from this line:
```
includedModulesWithNone := runValidateAllWithIncludeAndGetIncludedModules(t, testPath, []string{}, true)
```

which is running a validate all with strict include and no given modules, and is thus expecting no modules to be returned...however that test is also checking to ensure that Terragrunt does not throw any errors; which it will in this case now since it's not detecting any Terragrunt configurations in `FindInConfigFiles` anymore.

I think the best course of action here might be to change that error to warning since it should be expected to not find any Terragrunt configuration files with strict include on and no include directories specified.

***

**yorinasub17** commented *Apr 29, 2021*

Hmm I think the error message is actually correct. I would want terragrunt to give me a non-zero exit code when it finds no terragrunt.hcl config that it should run on.

Can you actually just remove that test condition? I think using strict-include without include-dir should be considered an error given the intention of strict-include, so we shouldn't be testing that condition.
***

**celestialorb** commented *Apr 29, 2021*

> Hmm I think the error message is actually correct. I would want terragrunt to give me a non-zero exit code when it finds no terragrunt.hcl config that it should run on.
> 
> Can you actually just remove that test condition? I think using strict-include without include-dir should be considered an error given the intention of strict-include, so we shouldn't be testing that condition.

What about cases where a script or CI system might generate a Terragrunt command with strict include based off of a set of changed modules? That set might be empty and could generate and run a Terragrunt command with `--terragrunt-strict-include` and no `--terragrunt-include-dir` flags. I don't think I'd consider that to be an error.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Apr 29, 2021*

Personally, I think the CI system or script should handle the case where there are no directories and not let terragrunt figure it out. That's a really simple array count check in bash, or whatever language it's in.

In fact, I would argue that terragrunt should really be erroring much earlier with a clear error message if `--terragrunt-strict-include` was passed in without `--terragrunt-include-dir`.

As a user, I would want terragrunt to complain to me that `--terragrunt-strict-include` expects `--terragrunt-include-dir` and that it's undefined behavior if you pass in `--terragrunt-strict-include` without the other.
***

**celestialorb** commented *Apr 29, 2021*

> Personally, I think the CI system or script should handle the case where there are no directories and not let terragrunt figure it out. That's a really simple array count check in bash, or whatever language it's in.
> 
> In fact, I would argue that terragrunt should really be erroring much earlier with a clear error message if `--terragrunt-strict-include` was passed in without `--terragrunt-include-dir`.
> 
> As a user, I would want terragrunt to complain to me that `--terragrunt-strict-include` expects `--terragrunt-include-dir` and that it's undefined behavior if you pass in `--terragrunt-strict-include` without the other.

You might be interested in taking a look at #1600 then.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Apr 29, 2021*

Ah you got me. I missed that, and if @brikis98 made that decision, then I'm fine going forward with this.

I would still argue that this should be handled early in the pipeline though, as a special check in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/f99b3fc2fb3ac7e4e5b5046fa126c80f15a4bc87/configstack/stack.go#L114 . That is probably the cleanest, and would still cause an error if you run `terragrunt` in a dir without any `terragrunt.hcl` file.
***

**rdettai** commented *Sep 7, 2022*

I am also interested to see this merged, is there a specific reason why it is stuck for over a year?
***

**celestialorb** commented *Sep 7, 2022*

> I am also interested to see this merged, is there a specific reason why it is stuck for over a year?

Shortly after this my team ditched Terragrunt in favor of plain Terraform, and thus I lost motivation to follow through on this.
***

