# Implement --terragrunt-source-map

**yorinasub17** commented *May 14, 2021*

Fixes https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1138

This implements the `--terragrunt-source-map` feature described in the ticket linked above. Note the following differences with the issue description:

- `--terragrunt-source-map` uses standard unix CLI kv definition. That is, it uses `--terragrunt-source-map source=dest` instead of `--terragrunt-source-map source:dest`.
- Does not implement file based configuration. The file based configuration can be implemented as an improvement in a future PR if there is demand.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *May 14, 2021*

> Does it make sense to deprecate --terragrunt-source?

Let's wait a little bit for `--terragrunt-source-map` to get some "in the wild" usage. I am worried there are a few corner cases that are covered by `--terragrunt-source` that `--terragrunt-source-map` doesn't cover.

> Should we support an env var like TERRAGRUNT_SOURCE_MAP?

What would be the syntax for specifying multiple source mappings via env var?

***

**brikis98** commented *May 14, 2021*

> > Does it make sense to deprecate --terragrunt-source?
> 
> Let's wait a little bit for `--terragrunt-source-map` to get some "in the wild" usage. I am worried there are a few corner cases that are covered by `--terragrunt-source` that `--terragrunt-source-map` doesn't cover.

That's a good point.

> 
> > Should we support an env var like TERRAGRUNT_SOURCE_MAP?
> 
> What would be the syntax for specifying multiple source mappings via env var?

Delimiter separated list? The delimiter could be space or semicolon or something else not commonly found in URLs.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *May 15, 2021*

Thanks for review! I'll go ahead and merge this in + release it, and then open a new PR for the env var fix.
***

