# Add support for using an Azure storage account backend

**NeverOddOrEven** commented *Jun 27, 2021*

I've added support for using an Azure storage account on the backend. I mostly copied the `GCS` implementation and then retrofitted in what I believe to be the right code from the Azure Golang SDK.

While I've written plenty of code in many other languages, this is the first Golang code I've written that isn't a basic Hello World web app. I would appreciate any helpful feedback or suggestions.
<br />
***


**NeverOddOrEven** commented *Jul 8, 2021*

It seems like this would be useful for those of us building solutions on Azure. Any feedback? I would be happy to address any problems and add documentation if this PR has a viable path to being merged. Let me know! Thanks.
***

**NeverOddOrEven** commented *Jul 13, 2021*

Thanks for the heads up. I think all of those points are very addressable. I should have time this weekend to add the documentation and integration tests. If you would like a volunteer consult on the Azure account aspect, let me know. I would be happy to advise/help. While cloud spend would be negligible, I will see if I can organize some information relating to Azure and OSS. 
***

**coip** commented *Jul 16, 2021*

You might consider externalizing the hard-coded `ctx = context.Background()`s to the caller  and instead require `ctx context.Context` as the first param for the associated funcs.

ctx is by convention always the first argument to a function that propagates context. Neat go primitive.

https://pkg.go.dev/context

very nice tho! Exciting to see
***

**BasLangenberg** commented *Nov 17, 2021*

Hi, while looking to add support for Azure storage account backends, I found this PR already open! Is there any chance this will be merged?
***

**NeverOddOrEven** commented *Nov 17, 2021*

I had hoped to make the suggested changes to get this merged. However, I have since changed jobs and I don’t think I am able to carry this across the finish line. I would love to see someone else pick it up if they are able! 

Fwiw, it is working code. It just needs merge conflicts resolved and integration test coverage.
***

**BasLangenberg** commented *Nov 20, 2021*

I'll have a stab at getting this in mergable state. I'm pretty busy right now, but I expect to have time for this in a week or 2.
***

**skurhse-rage-nexient** commented *Jun 2, 2022*

Any update on this?
***

**adamdost-msft** commented *Aug 12, 2022*

@yorinasub17 is the issue that there is no Azure environment for you all to test in? 
***

**DanielMabbett** commented *Jan 24, 2023*

Hi @yorinasub17 how is this going? Its been a year and a half
***

**DanielMabbett** commented *Jan 26, 2023*

Just for update asked in the discussion area. Keen to see this feature :) 
https://github.com/gruntwork-io/knowledge-base/discussions/648
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 1, 2023*

Folks, apologies for the long delay here. We would love to add first-class support for Azure backends, but the truth is that our team at Gruntwork just doesn't have the capacity to do it right now. As a company, we're mostly focused on AWS these days, so supporting Azure is hard: we don't have that much Azure expertise; we don't have Azure accounts set up to run tests; we don't have a tool like [cloud-nuke](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/cloud-nuke/) set up for Azure to clean up those accounts (so tests don't cost us a fortune); and so on. And, of course, we don't want to blindly merge a feature with no expertise or testing around it, so it looks like we support it, but it doesn't actually work. So, for the time being, I'm going to close this PR, unmerged.

We are deeply grateful for the community around Terragrunt; it's wonderful to see the ways you're all using this tool and all of your contributions have been invaluable. We wish we could do a lot more here, but as a small, 100% bootstrapped company maintaining a lot of open source software, we're doing the best we can to make things work (we're even experimenting with [sponsorships](https://github.com/sponsors/gruntwork-io)!). Feedback and suggestions are very welcome.
***

