# New helper functions

**jocgir** commented *Apr 22, 2017*

Added two helper functions: `path_relative_from_include()` which is the counter part of `path_relative_to_include()` and `get_aws_account_id()` which returns the current AWS account number.
Updated the documentation accordingly _(Read documentation to view use cases for the new interpolation functions)_.
Added state to terraform remote state configuration.

_Note that there are a lot of changes in the `README.md` file. This is because my editor automatically removed trailing blanks. But only the documentation relative to the two new functions has really been modified._
<br />
***


**jocgir** commented *Apr 23, 2017*

Hi @brikis98, I pushed a new version of the documentation (without the trailing blanks removal to help reading).

Regarding get_aws_account_id(), I understand your concern. Our problem is that we use the account id to make sure that our remote state bucket is unique. We have several account and it is the way we use to ensure that the bucket name is unique. We are facing an egg and chicken problem because we cannot access the terraform data source that gives us the accound id while we are configuring terragrunt to use that bucket name.

It can also help to determine the environment automatically based on AWS credentials. This could avoid an error of pushing the wrong environment in the wrong account (which could happen by relying solely on environment variables).

I also realized after implementing path_relative_from include() that what we really needed was a function like get_tfvars_dir() but returning the absolute path of the root configuration instead of the leaf. I added it (get_parent_dir(), but I wonder if path_relative_from_include() is still required).

Finally, I have a question for you. Is the limitation of not being able to have cascading find_in_parent_folders() is by design or you have any other reason. We structured our terraform folders with a subdirectory named private when we have sensitive element like secrets and don't want to make them visible to everybody. We can then control the access to the remote state file through IAM rules and ensure that secrets are not exposed in tfstate that have to be referred by other terraform folders.
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 23, 2017*

> Our problem is that we use the account id to make sure that our remote state bucket is unique. We have several account and it is the way we use to ensure that the bucket name is unique.

Don't the AWS creds you use determine which account gets used? Therefore, if you accidentally plug in the wrong AWS creds, you'd end up with the wrong bucket name, which could be quite disastrous...

> Is the limitation of not being able to have cascading find_in_parent_folders() is by design or you have any other reason.

It's mainly to keep things simpler. If you know there is only one level of includes, it's easier to reason about the code, and the implementation is simpler too. I wasn't aware of any real-world use cases for multiple levels of includes, so this seemed like a reasonable limitation for now.

> We structured our terraform folders with a subdirectory named private when we have sensitive element like secrets and don't want to make them visible to everybody. We can then control the access to the remote state file through IAM rules and ensure that secrets are not exposed in tfstate that have to be referred by other terraform folders.

How does having multiple levels of includes help with this? Perhaps a concrete example of the folder structure and various `.tfvars` files would help me understand.
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 24, 2017*

Thanks!
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 24, 2017*

Just created a new release here: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.12.7
***

