# Caching of run_cmd invocations

**denis256** commented *Jul 30, 2021*

Updated `DecodeBaseBlocks` to cache results of `evaluateLocalsBlock`, as cache key is used checksum calculated form HCL file content

Included changes:
 * map for caching of calculated locals, as key is used md5 from file content;
 * test for verification if single execution of "run_cmd" is executed only once;
 * test for verification if multiple invocations of "run_cmd" are handled correctly;


Example:

```
locals {
  foo = run_cmd("echo", uuid())
}

```

Before:
```
$ terragrunt init
d5cf86eb-3894-14a9-d17d-7cf08e5c3c9b
dc24b9ee-6acb-7f02-8f48-500fc4c10406
ERRO[0000] Did not find any Terraform files (*.tf) in /raid1/projects-work/g/terragrunt-denis/test1
ERRO[0000] Unable to determine underlying exit code, so Terragrunt will exit with error code 1
```

After:
```
$ terragrunt init
3207b829-b30f-e8bc-77a6-60b8581f4c41
ERRO[0000] Did not find any Terraform files (*.tf) in /raid1/projects-work/g/terragrunt-denis/test1
ERRO[0000] Unable to determine underlying exit code, so Terragrunt will exit with error code 1
```

Fix for: #1427
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Jul 30, 2021*

> Ah so you took the approach of caching the locals? I think this works for most use cases, but there are a few cases where this won't catch. E.g., I think there are places where users will use `run_cmd` in the `terraform` block and I think the same issue exists there.

Ah, interesting... Could we cache these other blocks too? Or just cache everything on a file-by-file basis?
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jul 30, 2021*

> Could we cache these other blocks too? Or just cache everything on a file-by-file basis?

It's hard to cache those blocks from a technical perspective because they're parsed directly by the HCL parser unlike the `locals` blocks. It's also hard to cache everything because we take multiple partial passes through the config. That's part of why my original suggestion was caching at the function level.
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 2, 2021*

> > Could we cache these other blocks too? Or just cache everything on a file-by-file basis?
> 
> It's hard to cache those blocks from a technical perspective because they're parsed directly by the HCL parser unlike the `locals` blocks. It's also hard to cache everything because we take multiple partial passes through the config. That's part of why my original suggestion was caching at the function level.

Understood. @denis256 do you want to give caching at the function level a shot? I'm curious if that helps avoid the limitation where `run_cmd` outside of `locals` may still be executed multiple times.
***

**denis256** commented *Aug 2, 2021*

Updated PR to cache invocations of `run_cmd` in `config_helpers.go` - as cache key is used path and command arguments.

Example behavior:

```
locals {
  uuid = run_cmd("echo", uuid())
  uuid2 = run_cmd("echo", uuid())
  potato = run_cmd("echo", "potato")
  potato2 = run_cmd("echo", "potato")
  carrot = run_cmd("echo", "carrot")
}

inputs = {
  fileName = run_cmd("echo", "carrot")
}
```

Output:
```
bd3499c9-cff7-e552-fbd7-29d90bb5c6d7
9efc7d00-c67c-6093-162d-0b380426d322
potato
carrot
```
Invocations of `run_cmd("echo", "potato") / run_cmd("echo", "carrot")` got cached and printed only once, however invcations of `run_cmd("echo", uuid())` miss cache, and executed each time - because "echo" was invoked with random UUID.



***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 3, 2021*

> Updated PR to cache invocations of `run_cmd` in `config_helpers.go` - as cache key is used path and command arguments.

Thanks!

> Example behavior:
> 
> ```
> locals {
>   uuid = run_cmd("echo", uuid())
>   uuid2 = run_cmd("echo", uuid())
>   potato = run_cmd("echo", "potato")
>   potato2 = run_cmd("echo", "potato")
>   carrot = run_cmd("echo", "carrot")
> }
> 
> inputs = {
>   fileName = run_cmd("echo", "carrot")
> }
> ```
> 
> Output:
> 
> ```
> bd3499c9-cff7-e552-fbd7-29d90bb5c6d7
> 9efc7d00-c67c-6093-162d-0b380426d322
> potato
> carrot
> ```
> 
> Invocations of `run_cmd("echo", "potato") / run_cmd("echo", "carrot")` got cached and printed only once, however invcations of `run_cmd("echo", uuid())` miss cache, and executed each time - because "echo" was invoked with random UUID.

Ohh, interesting. So I guess this is happening because the args that you're caching are _after_ parsing of HCL... So any native Terraform functions, such as `uuid()` are being executed in each parsing, _before_ the caching logic? 

If that's the case, then I'm afraid this won't really fix the issue, as we'll still have unexpected behavior. Consider, say:

```hcl
locals {
  foo = run_cmd("bash", "-c", "echo ${uuid()} >> foo.txt")
}
```

This code will be executed twice, with two different values appended to `foo.txt`, whereas the user would expect only one.

Hmph, well, it's good you had those automated tests in place to catch that.

So, thinking out loud:

1. Is there any way to cache the contents _before_ Terraform execution?
2. If not, are there any other approaches we should consider? 
***

**denis256** commented *Aug 4, 2021*

In the current implementation, with cache of locals(config_partial.go) and  `rum_cmd` (config_helpers.go) it will be executed only once - added test case for this.

```
$ wc -l foo.txt
0 foo.txt

$ cat cat terragrunt.hcl
locals {
  foo = run_cmd("bash", "-c", "echo ${uuid()} >> foo.txt")
}

$ terragrunt init

$ wc -l foo.txt
1 foo.txt

```

To cache non evaluated arguments for `run_cmd` will be challenging to implement since it is already preprocessed by `hclsyntax`


***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 9, 2021*

(Sorry for the delay; I'm OOO on vacation; will respond as soon as I can!)
***

**denis256** commented *Aug 13, 2021*

Updated PR with:
 * extracted cache in separated structure with access functions and basic tests - extracted as a separated structure since it can be re-used in future;
 * set caching only of `run_cmd` invocations - will get more consistent behavior but sill calculate `locals` multiple times;
 
Behavior after changes, without locals cache:

```
$ cat terragrunt.hcl
locals {
  uuid = run_cmd("echo", "uuid1",  uuid())
  uuid2 = run_cmd("echo", "uuid2", uuid())
  uuid3 = run_cmd("echo", "uuid3", uuid())
  potato = run_cmd("echo", "potato")
  potato2 = run_cmd("echo", "potato")
}
inputs = {
  potato3 = run_cmd("echo", "potato")
  uuid3 = run_cmd("echo", "uuid3", uuid())
  uuid4 = run_cmd("echo", "uuid4", uuid())
}

$ terragrunt init

uuid1 b48379e1-924d-2403-8789-c72d50be964c
uuid1 9f3a8398-b11f-5314-7783-dad176ee487d
uuid2 2d65972b-3fa9-181f-64fe-dcd574d944d0
uuid3 e345de60-9cfa-0455-79b7-af0d053a15a5
potato
uuid3 7f90a4ed-96e3-1dd8-5fee-91b8c8e07650
uuid2 8638fe79-c589-bebd-2a2a-3e6b96f7fc34
uuid3 310d0447-f0a6-3f67-efda-e6b1521fa1fb
uuid4 f8e80cc6-1892-8db7-bd63-6089fef00c01

ERRO[0000] Did not find any Terraform files (*.tf)
```

Notes:

* `run_cmd("echo", "potato")`  - got cached and was executed only once even if was referenced in locals and inputs;
* `uuid1-3` executed multiple times because of arguments uuid argument;
* `uuid3` - got evaluated 3 times: 2 times because of locals and once in inputs;
* `uuid4` - only once since it is referenced only in `inputs`;

Not sure if this is what was expected - results of `run_cmd` are cached in any block, but `locals` are still evaluated multiple times.

***

**denis256** commented *Aug 18, 2021*

> Why does uuid1 appear twice?

Without caching of locals, all locals are evaluated twice, and in the case of UUID it misses cache for `run_cmd`

Evaluation in code:
```
PartialParseConfigString() config/config_partial.go:170
ParseConfigString() config/config.go:537

```



***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 19, 2021*

> > Why does uuid1 appear twice?
> 
> Without caching of locals, all locals are evaluated twice, and in the case of UUID it misses cache for `run_cmd`
> 
> Evaluation in code:
> 
> ```
> PartialParseConfigString() config/config_partial.go:170
> ParseConfigString() config/config.go:537
> ```

Ah, right. Man, there are several things at play here, and its easy to forget about one or the other:

1. Everything in `locals` is evaluated twice based on how Terragrunt currently does parsing.
1. This doesn't matter for the vast majority of the code, as it's idempotent.
1. However, `run_cmd` is an exception, as it might not be idempotent (e.g., may have side effects).
1. To avoid executing `run_cmd` calls multiple times, we cache them, based on the args passed to `run_cmd`.
1. This way, after the first execution, subsequent ones are fetched from the cache.
1. However, the args passed to `run_cmd` are evaluated _before_ caching, so in the case of function calls like `uuid()`, where you get a different value on each evaluation, `run_cmd` is still going to be executed multiple times.

Does that capture it correctly and clearly? If so, we may want to add the description to the code and the docs. In the docs, we show the example you have after this description.
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 23, 2021*

Looks like pre-commit checks failed:

```
goimports................................................................Failed
- hook id: goimports
- files were modified by this hook

config/cache_test.go
```

Please run `goimports`!
***

**denis256** commented *Aug 23, 2021*

Updated PR, maybe will be good to have `goimports` as an option in makefile

***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 23, 2021*

Re-running tests!
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 23, 2021*

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.31.6
***

