# Terraform Module Registry support

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 12, 2021*

Fixes https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/311

This PR adds a new getter protocol to allow downloading Terraform modules from any Terraform Registry, including private ones.

Example source URL: `tfr://registry.terraform.io/terraform-aws-modules/vpc/aws?version=3.3.0`

Note that there are a few design decisions that were made here that are worth commentating on:

- Ideally we would be able to reuse code from Terraform. However, `terraform` has moved to packaging all its libraries under `internal` so that you can't use them as a library outside of Terraform. To respect the direction and spirit of the Terraform team, I opted for not doing anything funky to workaround the limitation (like copying those files in here). This means that we would need to roll our own registry client, but luckily, this wasn't too hard as shown here.

- I set the new `tfr` package to `internal` to respect the `terraform` team's decision to avoid increasing the surface area of terraform registry clients.

- To keep the implementation simple, I opted for introducing a new protocol string to the source URL. This cleans up the implementation by only requiring to implement a custom `Getter` and loading it into `go-getter` without mucking with the Terragrunt config to introduce another field for module versions (like how the Terraform module source parameter works), or implementing complex detector interfaces. This risks deviating from familiar APIs, but I think the maintenance overhead of supporting the Terraform interface is too costly.

- Similarly, I opted for using an environment variable provided API token for authenticating to private module registries. This is unconventional (not something Terraform supports), which again risks deviating from familiar APIs of Terraform, but the maintenance overhead of duplicating the logic without importing didn't seem worth it for this initial version. I think the implementation is modular enough that we can add this in later if we deem it necessary.

**IMPORTANT**: For testing, I created a new null resource module and published it to [the registry](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/yorinasub17/terragrunt-registry-test/null/latest). For speed of iteration/implementation, I created [this repo under my account](https://github.com/yorinasub17/terraform-null-terragrunt-registry-test), but we should migrate this to the `gruntwork-io` org. I will need help from @brikis98 to complete this.
<br />
***


**lorengordon** commented *Aug 12, 2021*

Neat idea. Makes me wonder if go-getter would accept this upstream?

***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 13, 2021*

~TODO: Investigate if `localterraform.com` needs special support (https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/registry/using.html#the-generic-module-hostname-localterraform-com-)~ Upon investigation, there is no special logic implemented in `terraform` source for `localterraform.com`, so assuming this is handled purely through DNS on TFE instances. This means we don't need special logic in Terragrunt to support it. 
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 16, 2021*

> The go-getter library doesn't natively support Terraform Registry URLs?

Nope it does not. The terraform registry logic in `terraform` source is all implemented outside of `go-getter`.

> Is the custom tfr protocol so go-getter can detect that the user is trying to us a Registry URL? And in that way, handle that URL with our own Getter implementation? The alternative would be to allow users to specify Registry URLs exactly as you would with Registry source URLs in .tf code: e.g., source = "hashicorp/consul/aws". Is that just trickier to implement?

Please read the PR description:

> To keep the implementation simple, I opted for introducing a new protocol string to the source URL. This cleans up the implementation by only requiring to implement a custom Getter and loading it into go-getter without mucking with the Terragrunt config to introduce another field for module versions (like how the Terraform module source parameter works), or implementing complex detector interfaces. This risks deviating from familiar APIs, but I think the maintenance overhead of supporting the Terraform interface is too costly.

To expand a bit, the key related point here is **complex detector interfaces**. If we try to support something like `terraform`, then we need to implement the logic to determine if the url is a Terraform Registry URL or a local file path in go-getter's detector subsystem. This would take more work and code, which felt like we could cut out for the initial release of this feature.
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 17, 2021*

> > The go-getter library doesn't natively support Terraform Registry URLs?
> 
> Nope it does not. The terraform registry logic in `terraform` source is all implemented outside of `go-getter`.
> 
> > Is the custom tfr protocol so go-getter can detect that the user is trying to us a Registry URL? And in that way, handle that URL with our own Getter implementation? The alternative would be to allow users to specify Registry URLs exactly as you would with Registry source URLs in .tf code: e.g., source = "hashicorp/consul/aws". Is that just trickier to implement?
> 
> Please read the PR description:
> 
> > To keep the implementation simple, I opted for introducing a new protocol string to the source URL. This cleans up the implementation by only requiring to implement a custom Getter and loading it into go-getter without mucking with the Terragrunt config to introduce another field for module versions (like how the Terraform module source parameter works), or implementing complex detector interfaces. This risks deviating from familiar APIs, but I think the maintenance overhead of supporting the Terraform interface is too costly.
> 
> To expand a bit, the key related point here is **complex detector interfaces**. If we try to support something like `terraform`, then we need to implement the logic to determine if the url is a Terraform Registry URL or a local file path in go-getter's detector subsystem. This would take more work and code, which felt like we could cut out for the initial release of this feature.

Got it, that's what I was trying to understand. May be worth filing a bug for this with this context so we can track it for possible future improvements.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 17, 2021*

> Got it, that's what I was trying to understand. May be worth filing a bug for this with this context so we can track it for possible future improvements.

Done:

- https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1772
- 55a1670
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 18, 2021*

Thanks for review! Merging this in now!
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 18, 2021*

@lorengordon oops I thought I responded but I didn't

> Makes me wonder if go-getter would accept this upstream?

Yea it's definitely worth a try, although given the trend in the `terraform` repo, I'm not too hopeful. I was planning on opening an issue on the `go-getter` repo after we get a few cycles of testing in the wild to make sure this approach actually works in real world use cases before bothering them.
***

**antonbabenko** commented *Aug 18, 2021*

@yorinasub17 Thanks a lot for this improvement! 🎉 
***

**lorengordon** commented *Aug 18, 2021*

@yorinasub17 Thanks for responding, sounds good to me! The go-getter project has been moving pretty quick lately, I feel like (I subscribe to all activity on the project), adding features and releases. So I am somewhat hopeful.

***

**giacomoaluigi** commented *Aug 19, 2021*

@yorinasub17 great job! Very very useful, thanks a lot!
***

