# Add note in docs clarifying which modules one should be using with terragrunt

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 18, 2021*

After seeing https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1774, I realized that it is probably worth clarifying the intent of terragrunt somewhere. For lack of a better place, I placed the note in the reference section.
<br />
***


**antonbabenko** commented *Aug 19, 2021*

The clarification in this PR is clear but I think there can be also an example of how to use submodules with the short syntax introduced recently. This works well for me:

    source = "tfr:///terraform-aws-modules/iam/aws//modules/iam-policy?version=4.2.0"
***

**lorengordon** commented *Aug 19, 2021*

I don't think this is entirely accurate. Any nested module with a readme should be considered public and directly consumable by the user:

>Nested modules. Nested modules should exist under the modules/ subdirectory. Any nested module with a README.md is considered usable by an external user. If a README doesn't exist, it is considered for internal use only.

From: https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/modules/develop/structure.html
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 19, 2021*

Thanks for the comments everyone! All those points make sense. Will work on clarifying these points!

> I don't think this is entirely accurate. Any nested module with a readme should be considered public and directly consumable by the user:

I mentioned this in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1774#issuecomment-901980069, but it is not entirely contradictory. I think the terminology clarification proposed by @brikis98 should hopefully make this distinction more accurate.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 23, 2021*

Updated the docs given the latest information from the thread. Hopefully this would be satisfactory to all parties!
***

**lorengordon** commented *Sep 17, 2021*

>So here, we're updating the docs to explain (1), but (2) may still lead to issues. Our hope is that flushing out (1) and our stance here will lead to users complaining to us, the Terragrunt maintainers, when they hit issues with (2), rather than the module maintainers, who shouldn't be bothered with that stuff. But due to (3), there are no guarantees. I think this PR is a net improvement, but more work will be necessary before this is totally resolved.

That's a really good summary!
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 17, 2021*

Thanks for review! Going to merge this in given the summary.
***

