# Allow setting log level with env var

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 9, 2021*

This PR updates the log level routine to allow configuring the terragrunt log level using the env var `TERRAGRUNT_LOG_LEVEL`.

Note that the env var configured log level has special properties beyond the `--terragrunt-log-level` CLI arg, where it allows configuring the terragrunt log level for the global fallback (because it doesn't depend on parsing the CLI args). This is very useful for debugging panic errors where we need the stack trace, because the stack trace is only available in debug mode on the global logger.
<br />
***


**denis256** commented *Sep 10, 2021*

I'm a little bit concern that there is no test that will verify that `TERRAGRUNT_LOG_LEVEL` is applied, if in future code will be changed that `TERRAGRUNT_LOG_LEVEL` will be ignored and log level set each time to `defaultLogLevel` - tests will still pass
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 10, 2021*

I'm not sure how useful that test would be, since it would be more or less a tautology with the const definition of `logLevelEnvVar`. That is, more likely than not, we would modify that const, and then the test will fail, and just update the test to match the value changed to that without much thought.

That said, having tests to validate the fallback behavior and error handling seems useful so will add a few.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 10, 2021*

Ok tests added! Need another review.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 13, 2021*

Thanks for review! Merging now.
***

