# #667 iam_role parsing before evaluation of other HCL blocks

**denis256** commented *Sep 14, 2021*

Updated HCL parsing first to extract `iam_role` and use obtained value in the evaluation of HCL blocks

Example:
```
$ aws sts get-caller-identity
{
    "UserId": "AAA",
    "Account": "BBB",
    "Arn": "arn:aws:iam::YYYY:/app0"
}

$ cat terragrunt.hcl
iam_role = "arn:aws:iam::ZZZZ:user/app666"

locals {
  var = run_cmd("echo", "get_aws_account_id", "${get_aws_account_id()}")
}
```
Before:
```
$ terragrunt init
....
get_aws_account_id YYYY
....
```
After this PR:
```
$ terragrunt init
...
get_aws_account_id ZZZZ
...
```

Fix for issue: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/667
<br />
***


**denis256** commented *Sep 15, 2021*

Behaviour with current changes:

```
$ cat terragrunt.hcl
remote_state {
  backend = "local"
  generate = {
    path      = "${get_aws_account_id()}.txt"
    if_exists = "overwrite"
  }
  config = {
    path = "terraform.tfstate"
  }
}

include "issue667" {
  path = "../issue-667-include/vars.hcl"
}
$ cat ../issue-667-include/vars.hcl
iam_role = "arn:aws:iam::AAAA:role/terragrunttest"

$ aws sts get-caller-identity
{
    "UserId": "X",
    "Account": "Y",
    "Arn": "arn:aws:iam::BBBB:user/terragrunttest2"
}

$ terragrunt init
....

$ ls AAAA.txt 
AAAA.txt
```

So `get_aws_account_id()` resolved with value from `iam_role` included from other file, without this change will be created `BBBB.txt`
***

**denis256** commented *Sep 15, 2021*

Moved to draft since this implementation caused more integration tests to fail
***

**denis256** commented *Sep 15, 2021*

My local issue, the same number of tests don't pass with or without this change
***

**denis256** commented *Sep 16, 2021*

In the current implementation, it adds a +1 evaluation of HCL code at the beginning, fetching from result `TerragruntFlags / IamRole`  and doing another revaluation.

It will work in cases of remote state definition but may generate some unexpected output in cases like:
```
iam_role = "arn:aws:iam::${local.id}:user/terragrunt"
locals {
  id = "6666"
  var = run_cmd("echo", "get_aws_account_id", "${get_aws_account_id()}")
}
```
It will print:
```
get_aws_account_id AAAA
get_aws_account_id 6666
```
`AAAA` from the first evaluation when `iam_role` was empty and was loaded default value, and `6666` from the second evaluation when `iam_role` was defined
***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 28, 2021*

@yorinasub17 If you're still digging into Terragrunt issues, could you review this one?
***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 30, 2021*

> The side effect of additional parsing of locals is a potential cause for concern, but I think it would actually work out given that I think most configurations would limit the amount of side effects in locals. What is more of a concern is the backward incompatible nature of this feature.
> 
> Currently, before this PR, `get_aws_account_id` will always return the value based on the original credentials. Now, this will change to the value after `iam_role` is assumed. In most use cases, this is probably not a huge issue and could be worked around.
> 
> I think where this gets super tricky is if users had a config like the following:
> 
> ```
> iam_role = "arn:aws:iam::${get_aws_account_id()}:role/terragrunttest"
> ```
> 
> Currently as implemented, what would happen is that in the initial parse for `iam_role`, `iam_role` would resolve `get_account_id` based on the original credentials, but when it goes through to do the full parse, `get_account_id` would now be based on the assumed `iam_role`. That means that potentially, the `iam_role` could change depending on which stage of parsing it is in.
> 
> This probably isn't a big deal for functions like `get_account_id`, where the value doesn't change even after assuming the role, but what about the following config?
> 
> ```
> # Where 333333333 is another account
> iam_role = "arn:aws:iam::333333333:role/from-${get_aws_account_id()}"
> ```
> 
> In this case, `get_aws_account_id()` will return `333333333` in the full parse, which means it will assume a different IAM role when it runs terraform.

Oof, you're right, this does feel messy. 

> But it makes me wonder if this is a fundamentally flawed feature, and whether we should consider separating configuration of cloud authentication out of the main `terragrunt.hcl` so that it can be parsed without side effects.

Yea, I've been having lots of second thoughts about:

- iam_role
- iam_assume_role_duration
- get_aws_account_id()
- get_aws_caller_identity_arn()
- get_aws_caller_identity_user_id()

And for that matter, the way we've implemented Auto Init for S3 buckets, DynamoDB tables, etc.

They all feel like partial implementations that don't fully solve the problem; they also feel too cloud-specific and are a pain to maintain.

I wonder if what we really need is:

1. Either remove all auth from Terragrunt and require that it's handled externally. Or, alternatively, have first-class auth functionality, but handled separately than the rest of the config. This would need a design.
1. Either remove all "data fetching" from Terragrunt and require that it's handled externally. Or, alternatively, have first-class data source support: conceptually, I imagine a separate Terraform module with a bunch of `data` sources and output variables, we run `apply` on that first, and then expose it to your config similar to a `dependency` block; you can then use all that fetched data in your config, and we run `apply` on the module you have in `source`.
1. Either remove all "Auto Init" for remote state for Terragrunt and require that it's handled externally. Or, alternatively, have first-class remote state support: conceptually, I imagine a separate Terraform module that creates your remote state resources (e.g., S3 bucket, DynamoDB table) and provides info about them via output variables, we run `apply` on that first, and then expose it to your config similar to a `dependency` block; you can then use that data in your config, and we run `apply` on the module you have in `source`.

But these are all larger changes, prob not super relevant to this PR.

For this PR, the key question, I suppose, is how many users combine the `iam_role` config with the various data functions:

- get_aws_account_id()
- get_aws_caller_identity_arn()
- get_aws_caller_identity_user_id()

My guess is that 99% of the time, they are used separately, and the intention is (a) assume the specified IAM role and (b) fetch the requested data while authenticated as that IAM role. In the <1% of use cases where the two are combined together, the result will likely be unpredictable. Not sure if our partial parse can detect that and show a warning? If not, then perhaps we document it, merge this PR, and file issues to do the larger clean up mentioned above?
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 30, 2021*

That makes sense.

> If not, then perhaps we document it, merge this PR, and file issues to do the larger clean up mentioned above?

Let's move forward with documenting this. @denis256 can you update the docs for the following functions and mention the caveat that the value will change depending on the parsing stage?

- get_aws_account_id
- get_aws_caller_identity_arn
- get_aws_caller_identity_user_id

The source is here: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/master/docs/_docs/04_reference/built-in-functions.md

Separately, I'll go ahead and file an issue capturing the above point: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1840
***

