# render-json command

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 23, 2021*

This introduces the `render-json` command, which will render out a json representation of the full, interpretted `terragrunt.hcl` config (that is, with all the includes merged, dependencies resolved/interpolated, function calls executed, etc).

The primary use case of this would be to run [OPA](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/opa) on the rendered json to enforce policies on `terragrunt.hcl` (since it doesn't support running against HCL inputs).

As an alternative, one could use [hcl2json](https://github.com/tmccombs/hcl2json), but this won't interpret the blocks, which makes it harder to write policies. E.g., if you want to enforce restrictions on the module source for the final example in https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/features/keep-your-terragrunt-architecture-dry/, you need to be able to see the rendered `source` that involves `include` and `local` interpolation. A naive hcl to json translation would make the `terraform.source` attribute look like:

```
{
  "terraform": {
    "source": "${include.env.locals.source_base_url}?ref=v0.2.0"
  }
}
```

which won't be possible to match against OPA rules. So a terragrunt native feature like `render-json` proposed here which outputs the fully interpreted terragrunt config to run OPA rules against is a lot more practical.

As a bonus, this tool could be a nice way to debug `terragrunt.hcl` as well, especially for those that have multiple `include` and `read_terragrunt_config` calls.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 28, 2021*

Accepted your suggestion so need another review!
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 29, 2021*

Sorry I need one more review cycle due to a merge conflict with https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/1833 - had to rename the parameter to use `optTerragrunt` instead of `OPT_TERRAGRUNT`.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 30, 2021*

Thanks for review. Merging now!
***

