# Update contributing guidelines with info about changed labels

**rhoboat** commented *Oct 11, 2021*

We are removing the `help wanted` (PRs welcome) label because all issues are open to contribution. The problem is that 215 issues previously had the `help wanted` label and the issue activity on each of those says the label was removed. Optically this looks like we no longer want help. But actually we do. What's the best way to let people know this?

This PR is a suggestion. Maybe we need a script that pops a message in each of those 215 issues (detect issues that used to have that label?) and announce the label change? Is that spammy?
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Oct 12, 2021*

Three thoughts about this:

- This probably isn't as a big of a concern, primarily because in practice, a lot of Terragrunt contributions come from people trying to solve their own problem, rather than "hunting for issues to solve." So the change in labels doesn't really make much of a difference here, because contributions come in regardless of label status.

- In general, I think it is better for the contributions guidelines to focus on the present rather than the past. So instead of stating what we changed about the process, it is better to focus on the new labels, and think from the perspective of a new contributor. E.g.,
    1. Walk through what the new, current labels we are using are and what they mean.
    2. In the context of `high-priority` = Gruntwork prioritized, community contributors may want to focus on issues that are `queued` or `backlog` to avoid duplicate work (the logic here is that anything that is labeled as `high-priority` has a chance of already being worked on by someone at Gruntwork).

- As far as communicating changes to the guideline goes,  perhaps using pinned issues is the best? These issues bubble to the top and are highlighted, so it will catch folks attention. See the pinned issues on https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-aws/issues for an example.
***

**rhoboat** commented *Oct 12, 2021*

I feel like there's going to be a lot of duplication in our READMEs if we start explaining all the labels in each repo. I'll close this PR and open an internal discussion instead.
***

