# Fix bug with dependency blocks in multi include

**yorinasub17** commented *Oct 13, 2021*

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1852 revealed a bug where the dependency graph constructed with `run-all` incorrectly ignored some included dependencies. This is due to the following implementation details that mixed poorly:

- We were using the old `Dependencies` list (equivalent to the `dependencies` block) to track dependencies in the stack graph. This meant that in the graph building parsing stage, we would convert the list of `dependency` blocks into `dependencies` block.
- `dependencies` block were shallow merged. This meant that later includes would override the `dependencies` list, instead of concatenating the lists.

This wasn't really an issue with single includes, as it was rare to pack dependencies in the `include` config. However, this issue started to surface with the introduction of multiple includes taking the pattern of fragmenting dependency blocks to DRY. This caused a single dependency in the child to override the combined dependency list from the parents!

To fix this, we special case the shallow merge logic to deep merge the `dependencies` list. This is unfortunately **backward incompatible** for configurations that use `dependencies` blocks. However, with multi-includes, I think this can be worked around. That is, the shallow merge of `dependencies` blocks is useful to nullify the `dependencies` in the parent config for some of the children. You can mimic this behavior with multi include by breaking out just the `dependencies` block into a separate config that is conditionally included. That is, all children that don't override the `dependencies` block include the config that defines it, while the child that is overriding the `dependencies` block does not.

It is more verbose, but I think I'd rather focus on improving the UX for users that use `dependency` blocks than those that use `dependencies`.

I think the "right" fix for this, by the way, is https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1863, but that will take time to implement, so this PR is the intermediary, less good but good enough solution.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Oct 13, 2021*

Thanks for the review! Will merge and release this as backward incompatible release.

> BTW, in the future, should we deprecate and eventually remove dependencies? Seems like dependency blocks are a superset?

Hah had this exact thought in mind! See this issue I filed yesterday: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1863
***

