# --terragrunt-modules-that-include filter for run-all

**yorinasub17** commented *Oct 27, 2021*

## Motivation

With the introduction of multiple include blocks, it is becoming increasingly common to setup terragrunt projects that have shared configurations for specific components. However, this introduces a problem for infrastructure CI/CD pipelines, where you want to only run against the modules that changed.

Consider our example in [terragrunt-infrastructure-live-example](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt-infrastructure-live-example). The common configurations related to `mysql` are extracted in the file `_envcommon/mysql.hcl`. If we were bumping the module version for the `qa` environment by editing the source reference in [non-prod/us-east-1/qa/mysql/terragrunt.hcl](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt-infrastructure-live-example/blob/master/non-prod/us-east-1/qa/mysql/terragrunt.hcl#L10), the pipeline is straightforward - we just run `terragrunt plan` and `terragrunt apply` in the folder of the file that changed.

However, what should we do if the common configuration gets updated? E.g., bumping the instance type: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt-infrastructure-live-example/blob/master/_envcommon/mysql.hcl#L40

It isn't immediately obvious what the desired behavior is in this case. For example, for something like changing the instance type of the database, the desired behavior is probably to run `terragrunt plan` and `terragrunt apply` progressively across the environments. That is, start with `qa`, then `stage`, and then `prod`. On the other hand, for a change like updating the environment variables for an application, you can get away with running `terragrunt plan` and `terragrunt apply` in parallel across all environments.

This PR seeks to provide a basic building block that can be used for designing a pipeline for both use cases.

## Solution

In this PR, we introduce a flag for `run-all` (`--terragrunt-modules-that-include`) which will filter out all modules in a stack that does not include at least one of the files listed in the arg.

With such a filter, you can implement the two flows:

For the promotion flow, you can have your pipeline run each environment in succession:
```
terragrunt run-all plan --terragrunt-modules-that-include ../_envcommon/mysql.hcl --terragrunt-working-dir non-prod/qa
# if that succeeds
terragrunt run-all plan --terragrunt-modules-that-include ../_envcommon/mysql.hcl --terragrunt-working-dir non-prod/stage
# ... and so on ...
```

For the parallel flow, you can call `run-all` from the root once:
```
terragrunt run-all plan --terragrunt-modules-that-include _envcommon/mysql.hcl
```

Refer to the docs update in this PR for more details on the use case and how this feature can help implement the pipeline.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Nov 11, 2021*

Thanks for review and working through this! I'm going to merge this in now.
***

