# Add plan-all option

**jocgir** commented *Apr 26, 2017*

I submitted this one few weeks ago, but it was refused because plan-all will fail on a stack with dependencies that has never been deployed.

As suggested, I added a mechanism to give user an explicit message in the case where the plan fail because its dependencies were not satisfied.

Also, as specified in #194, I relied on `RunModules` instead of `RunModulesReverseOrder` for both plan-all and output-all.
<br />
***


**jocgir** commented *Apr 26, 2017*

The goal of plan-all is mainly to evaluate the impact of code modification on an already applied infrastructure. When we submit a PR on our infrastructure, our CI apply a plan-all to let us see the impact and we have to confirm if we wish to apply them.

It can still work on new infrastructure, but not if there are true dependencies.
***

**jocgir** commented *Apr 26, 2017*

Regarding #80, I agree with you. The xxx-all outputs are difficult to read mainly due to the multithreading. Capturing the output (stdout and stderr) for each and summarize at the end would give a more readable output.

Also, there is a problem with the exit code. We should recuperate exit code (err) for each module and summarize them with the output.

I especially have a problem with `terraform plan -detailed-exitcode`. It returns 2 if there are modifications, but terragrunt exit with 1 because it is not able to parse the error summary.

`[terragrunt] 2017/04/26 19:07:07 Unable to determine underlying exit code, so Terragrunt will exit with error code 1`

Also, I don't know if it is a bug in terraform, but for some specific cases, when we use 

```
<= module.domain.data.aws_route53_zone.main
    caller_reference:          "<computed>"
    comment:                   "<computed>"
    name:                      "dev.xxx.com."
    private_zone:              "true"
    resource_record_set_count: "<computed>"
    tags.%:                    "<computed>"
    vpc_id:                    "<computed>"
    zone_id:                   "<computed>"

Plan: 0 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
[terragrunt] [/terragrunt/infra] 2017/04/26 19:44:10 Module /terragrunt/infra has finished with an error: exit status 2
```

As you can see, we receive `Plan: 0 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.`, but terraform still exit with status 2.
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 27, 2017*

> I especially have a problem with terraform plan -detailed-exitcode. It returns 2 if there are modifications, but terragrunt exit with 1 because it is not able to parse the error summary.

Please file a bug for that. AFAIK, that used to work, so we may have a regression that broke that functionality.

> As you can see, we receive Plan: 0 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy., but terraform still exit with status 2.

Never seen that before. Is there a simple case to repro that with? Does it only happen with Terragrunt or does the same problem happen when using Terraform directly?
***

**jocgir** commented *Apr 27, 2017*

The fact that exit code 2 is given when it should not is a terraform problem. But terragrunt still has problem reporting it and convert the exit code 2 (changes) to exit code 1 because of this:
```go
type MultiError struct {
	Errors []error
}

func (err MultiError) Error() string {
	errorStrings := []string{}
	for _, err := range err.Errors {
		errorStrings = append(errorStrings, err.Error())
	}
	return fmt.Sprintf("Encountered the following errors:\n%s", strings.Join(errorStrings, "\n"))
}
```

The extra formatting make the error difficult to analyse at the end of the program.
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 27, 2017*

> The fact that exit code 2 is given when it should not is a terraform problem. But terragrunt still has problem reporting it and convert the exit code 2 (changes) to exit code 1 because of this:

Ah, I see. Worth filing a separate bug to track it. Not clear what exit code to use with multiple `plan` commands though, but better logging would definitely be a good idea.
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 27, 2017*

OK, LGTM. Merging. Thank you!
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 27, 2017*

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.12.13
***

