# Terragrunt v0.0.1, with DynamoDB locking 

**brikis98** commented *May 30, 2016*

This PR contains the initial implementation of terragrunt. v0.0.1 is just a thin wrapper for the Terraform client that provides locking using DynamoDB. It requires minimal setup, it’s in the free tier, and for teams already using AWS, it provides a really easy way to safely collaborate on Terraform state with minimal changes to their Terraform workflow. In fact, the _only_ change is that you run commands using `terragrunt XXX` instead of `terraform XXX`. 

Note that this PR replaces #1 in this repo (which I’ll close shortly). PR #1 also discussed support for locking using Git (or more specifically, a centralized source of truth for Git, such as GitHub). I began that implementation, and this PR contains commits with that code, but it’s quite a bit messier than the DynamoDB solution. I hit my time cap on the Git hacking and decided to remove it from this initial version. Perhaps, if there is demand for it, we can bring it back in the future.

<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *May 30, 2016*

@josh-padnick This is ready for review.

***

**josh-padnick** commented *May 31, 2016*

This looks fantastic. The dynamo code in particular was surprisingly complex and you did a nice job wrapping that in enough functions to make the code readable.

Nice testing, and the locking mechanism is pretty easy to follow.

Most of my comments centered around docs, conventions, and defaults, but overall this looks great. Once you've responded to comments, feel free to merge.

***

**josh-padnick** commented *May 31, 2016*

Question: are there any conflicts between terragrunt and terraform sub-commands? For example, what happens if I run `terragrunt version`? Do I get terragrunt's version or terraform's?

***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 1, 2016*

`terragrunt version` runs Terraform's version command; `terragrunt --version` runs Terragrunt's version command. A bit confusing, but good enough.

***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 1, 2016*

I've made all updates in #4. Merging this one.

***

