# New interpolation functions to handle terraform commands

**jocgir** commented *May 3, 2017*

This should solve #171.

Add new interpolation functions to list terraform commands that make use of -var, -var-file and -lock-timeout.

`get_terraform_commands_that_need_locking()`
`get_terraform_commands_that_need_vars()`

```hcl
terragrunt = {
  terraform {
    # Force Terraform to keep trying to acquire a lock for up to 20 minutes if someone else already has the lock
    extra_arguments "retry_lock" {
      commands  = "${get_terraform_commands_that_need_locking()}"
      arguments = ["-lock-timeout=20m"]
    }
  }
}
```

Note that the implementation has been a little bit complicated by the fact that we cannot just implement it as suggested:
```hcl
      commands  = ${get_terraform_commands_that_need_locking()}
```

This syntax is not compliant with HCL as interpolation function should be between quotes.
```hcl
      commands  = "${get_terraform_commands_that_need_locking()}"
```

But, since these functions are returning a list of string, we do not want to get this as result:
```hcl
      commands  = "["apply", "plan", ...]"
```

Which is invalid. We expect to get rid of the surrounding quotes and get:
```hcl
      commands  = ["apply", "plan", ...]
```

So, I had to change the return of `resolveTerragruntInterpolation` and `executeTerragruntHelperFunction` to handle `interface{}` instead of `string`.



<br />
***


**jocgir** commented *May 4, 2017*

@brikis98, If you don't mind, I found a bug with the current management of extra_arguments. I fixed it, but will include the fix in this PR.

command like `terraform taint -module xxx yyy` which mark the resource yyy of module xxx for refresh is not handling the `extra_arguments` properly.


If terragrunt is configured to inject -lock-timeout on command.
```
terragrunt taint -module xxx yyy
```
will result in:
```
terraform taint -module xxx yyy -lock-timeout=20m
```
which give an error. `terraform` expect to receive it's options between the command `taint` and the arguments. So it expect:
```
terraform taint -module xxx -lock-timeout=20m  yyy 
```
But is is difficult to find the proper insertion point. So the easiest way to do thing is to insert the extra arguments directly after the command:
```
terraform taint -lock-timeout=20m -module xxx yyy 
```
My suggested implementation handle the fact that some `terraform` commands require sub command like `terraform state <sub-command>`.

This also has the advantage of not overwriting a desired behaviour. If we automatically inject `-var region-us-east-1` in the terragrunt configuration.
```
terragrunt apply -var region=us-west-2
```
We get:
```
terraform apply -var region=us-west-2 -var region=us-east-1
```
Which override the explicitly declared value supplied by the user

With the proposed change, we get
```
terraform apply -var region=us-east-1 -var region=us-west-2
```
Which result in a more compliant command to the user intent.

***

**brikis98** commented *May 4, 2017*

Ah, yes, that's #142. I like your idea for a fix!
***

**brikis98** commented *May 22, 2017*

@jocgir What is the latest status with this PR?
***

**jocgir** commented *May 22, 2017*

Hi @brikis98,

If I remind well, I have made the modifications you proposed and I was waiting for your comments or approval.
***

**brikis98** commented *May 23, 2017*

OK, we are almost there. Two final comments and this is good to merge. Thank you for this important fix!
***

**jocgir** commented *May 23, 2017*

You are right, more tests we have, more problems we can identify. Read my latest commit to check what problem I faced :-)
***

**brikis98** commented *May 23, 2017*

Hahah, awesome. Merging now. Thanks!
***

**brikis98** commented *May 23, 2017*

New build is here: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.12.17
***

