# Comply with the Google Cloud impersonate library

**fgateuil** commented *Mar 29, 2022*

Update code to comply with the must-use Google Coud impersonate library.
<br />
***


**fgateuil** commented *Apr 2, 2022*

I couldn't find any integration tests to test this new way of using Google impersonation. Could you help me please? Is there any Google Cloud project that I could use? Note that with the one I'm using, it's working fine but it's relatively subjective.
Thanks for the help.
***

**denis256** commented *Apr 3, 2022*

Hi,
I think it will be helpful to create a test for this, maybe create service accounts and try to impersonate, GCP project is defined during tests execution through env variable `GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT`
***

**dennislapchenko** commented *May 8, 2022*

@denis256 @yorinasub17 @fgateuil GCS double impersonation is still big sore thumb :( can I assist you in writing tests to make this pass? Just couple pointers and I'll be happy to speed up this PR.
***

**denis256** commented *May 10, 2022*

Hello,
CI job passed so there is regression after changes, local test with `impersonate_service_account` also worked, I will look if will be possible to enable impersonation for the service account used in integration tests
***

**fgateuil** commented *May 30, 2022*

Hi @denis256. Thanks your reply.
Let me know if you need me regarding the impersonation configuration. Even if I don't have any access to the GCP project used by the integration tests, I might help you a bit.
***

**denis256** commented *Jun 1, 2022*

Hi,
I was thinking about basic test like: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/compare/denis-gs-test to track in future that `impersonate_service_account` will continue to work
***

**fgateuil** commented *Feb 2, 2023*

> Hi, I was thinking about basic test like: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/compare/denis-gs-test to track in future that `impersonate_service_account` will continue to work

Hmmm, @denis256 it's not that simple. To test the impersonate mechanism, some prerequisites are necessary.

### Test 1:
* _Prerequisites:_
  * `main_sa_1` owns a single basic (testable) permission/role, let's say `roles/editor` role for instance to be allowed to create a new GCS bucket;
  * `principal_sa_1` owns the `Service Account Token Creator` permission over `main_sa_1` (as explained [here](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/impersonating-service-accounts#impersonate-sa-level));
* _Test:_
  * Set `impersonate_service_account` value to `principal_sa_1`'s email;
  * Create a GCS bucket ==> it must succeed.

### Test 2:
* _Prerequisites:_
  * `main_sa_2` doesn't own any permission/role so that he isn't allowed to create any GCS bucket;
  * `principal_sa_2` owns the `Service Account Token Creator` permission over `main_sa_2`;
* _Test:_
  * Set `impersonate_service_account` value to `principal_sa_2`'s email;
  * Create a GCS bucket ==> it must fail.

Thus, I need few service accounts and roles preconfigured to be able to test the impersonate mechanism and I'm not convinced it's already the case here.
***

**yamadayutaka** commented *May 2, 2023*

Hi @fgateuil , @denis256.
I modified the implementation slightly based on this pull request.
I also implemented the test code.
Could you please check this pull request? #2550
***

