# [RFC] custom_command block

**tim775** commented *May 2, 2022*

This RFC introduces a `custom_command` block which builds off the work done for `before/after_hook` to further improve support for user scripts and third party tools.

Here is [a link to the rendered markdown](https://github.com/infracost/terragrunt/blob/5dd6ab9c58cc18b15afe3cac80653ffbc137dd11/docs/_docs/05_rfc/custom_commands.md).
<br />
***


**tim775** commented *May 3, 2022*

>  I am not so sure about encoding this in the terragrunt.hcl config itself. My gut feeling suggests that it will be easier to implement, and much more flexible if this was implemented as a custom terragrunt command,

That is an interesting idea and it does seem easier to just pass the command you want to run instead of defining it in the config.  I guess one advantage of the config file approach is that you would have access to the built-in fuctions, but I'm not sure how important that is.  

Aesthetically, I think it would be nicer to support this in `run-all` rather than with a `--terragrunt-all`.  So maybe something like:
```
terragrunt exec -- infracost breakdown --path .
terragrunt run-all exec -- infracost breakdown --path .
``` 
---
Regarding the additional questions, I would love to hear what the larger community thinks.

For the Infracost case the answer is that the commands are pretty much the same but we would use a follow up command to combine the individual outputs after everything completes.  

I was thinking we could write to a tmp files then use a glob to generate a combined output, something like:
```
$ terragrunt run-command --terragrunt-all -- infracost breakdown --path . --out-file $(mktemp /tmp/infratemp/out.json.XXXXX)
$ infracost output --path /tmp/infratemp/out.json.*
```
***

**yorinasub17** commented *May 4, 2022*

> Aesthetically, I think it would be nicer to support this in run-all rather than with a --terragrunt-all. So maybe something like:

Yea `run-all` would be good if we can make it work. I didn't suggest it at first though because `run-all` only supports `terraform` commands (e.g., `terragrunt run-all hclfmt` doesn't work) so was afraid of the complexities involved there. In any case, if it can be done in a clean way, I think that is the way to go!
***

**tim775** commented *May 19, 2022*

Closing since there doesn't seem to be much interest from the community.
***

