# feat: fetch dependency output from state

**Ido-DY** commented *May 25, 2022*

In following to #2119
<br />
***


**Ido-DY** commented *May 31, 2022*

@denis256 I saw that you triggered the `build-and-test` for this PR and it failed.
I'm not sure if that is because any of my changes, or because of any other reason.
@yorinasub17 I saw your comment on my issue #2119 and created this PR to add this capability, is there anything you need me to do to move forward with this PR?
***

**denis256** commented *Jun 2, 2022*

Hi,
I will re-run the pipeline to see if will fail at same test, this PR don't introduce any test to validate that `TERRAGRUNT_FETCH_DEPENDENCY_OUTPUT_FORM_STATE` will continue to work in future 
***

**Ido-DY** commented *Jun 2, 2022*

> Hi, I will re-run the pipeline to see if will fail at same test, this PR don't introduce any test to validate that `TERRAGRUNT_FETCH_DEPENDENCY_OUTPUT_FORM_STATE` will continue to work in future

@denis256 Thank you, it has passed it now :)
I just saw that I created `TERRAGRUNT_FETCH_DEPENDENCY_OUTPUT_FORM_STATE` instead of `TERRAGRUNT_FETCH_DEPENDENCY_OUTPUT_FROM_STATE`, So I will push a fix for that and it might require you to re run it again.

This is my first contribution here so I'm not sure how to add tests for this feature, it probably should be covered somehow in the integration tests.
***

**denis256** commented *Jun 7, 2022*

Hi,
an integration test to track that this feature continues to work will be helpful, examples how to do it are in [integration_test.go](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/master/test/integration_test.go#L716)
***

**Ido-DY** commented *Jun 8, 2022*

> Hi, an integration test to track that this feature continues to work will be helpful, examples how to do it are in [integration_test.go](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/master/test/integration_test.go#L716)

@denis256 I just added an integration test for this feature.
***

**Ido-DY** commented *Jun 14, 2022*

@denis256 I saw the integration tests are passing, is there anything else you need me to do in order to move forward with this PR?
***

**Ido-DY** commented *Jun 19, 2022*

@denis256 I ran the failed integration test locally and it passed, can you rerun it?
***

**Ido-DY** commented *Jun 22, 2022*

@denis256 I saw that the tests passed this time, thanks.
Is there anything else you need me to do in order to move forward with this PR?
We have used this feature internally in my company for a while, and we are experiencing an incredible performance improvement.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jun 22, 2022*

Thanks for the contribution! Will merge and release this now!
***

