# [WIP] Increase config package test coverage for free

**maunzCache** commented *May 31, 2022*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

> This is a Draft for an upcoming "change"

This basically fixes nothing function-wise but adds a bunch of unit tests to increase the coverage and secure the currently implemented logic. My believe is that Clean Code can improve software in a good way but first we need to write tests covering the logic before doing any changes to structure, names or algorithms.

Understand this as a giveaway to the project.

Small side note to the term "test coverage":
I know that the current status i am working on has a nice coverage around 55%. However, this is the coverage for all tests executed. One single test may run code from more than one unit. So basically those tests do more than a simple unit test. This will make the coverage fuzzy because it captures coverage of implicitly tested units but you'd rather want to go for explicit tests.

I'll take the opportunity to open a PR early so that you can tell me if you don't like to get free tests or have requirements to make this work for you.

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [ ] Update the docs.
- [ ] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [ ] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [ ] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Added / Removed / Updated [X].

### Migration Guide

<!-- Important: If you made any backward incompatible changes, then you must write a migration guide! -->
<br />
***


**maunzCache** commented *Mar 28, 2023*

I'll not find time for this so closing the pr makes sense to me.
***

