# Add a "output-module-groups" command

**smaftoul** commented *Jun 1, 2022*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

Fixes #2016 .

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

This PR introduces the terragrunt `output-module-groups` command which outputs as JSON the groups of modules 
(as an array of array) of the current stack.

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Added the "groups-json" command.
<br />
***


**smaftoul** commented *Jun 1, 2022*

> -  [ ]  Update the docs.

@denis256 before updating docs, do you have a suggestion that is better than "groups-json" for the command name ?

> - [ ] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.

The PR doesn't modify any code, though, I should probably add some tests ?
***

**denis256** commented *Jun 3, 2022*

Hi,
since is related to reading output, I was thinking about something `output-xxx`
***

**denis256** commented *Jun 3, 2022*

Hi,
since is related to reading output, I was thinking about something `output-xxx`
***

**CarterSheehan** commented *Sep 13, 2022*

@smaftoul thank you for the PR! I am very excited to see it might be implemented soon ðŸ¤ž ðŸ™ 
***

**smaftoul** commented *Sep 14, 2022*

@CarterSheehan Hi ! Thanks for pinging, I stopped working on this because I have been fired (like a lot of startups are laying off) and took some holidays ...
I should definitely finish this feature, as it almost already works !
***

**phillip-constantine** commented *Sep 15, 2022*

@smaftoul I like this feature a lot for cicd, but I am not clear exactly how it is intended to be used. When I run it, I just get the same module list as normal, except it is in json (which is useable, but takes a lot of additional work). What I was thinking would be most useful and applicable to cicd would be to run a command at the root that will automatically

1. get module groups
2. for Group1, run a `plan` for all modules and check if there are any changes
3. if there are changes, output a plan file and exit (ci tools can then post this for human review, which will then get ingested into an `apply`
4. if there are no changes to Group1, then move on to Group2

This nicely separates each dependency layer in your stack, and ensures that you have as much knowledge as possible about each deployment's consequences. No more having to fiddle around with "mock outputs", because modules only have a plan attempted when all previous-order modules have no pending changes.

Wish I could help, but I am still learning Go

***

**Laudenlaruto** commented *Feb 3, 2023*

Would love to see this @smaftoul ! I believe that this output can enable you to code what you are describing @phillip-constantine, but I don't think the whole process should be managed by Terragrunt. 
***

**Laudenlaruto** commented *Feb 7, 2023*

I've added the documentation required :)
***

**smaftoul** commented *Feb 7, 2023*

Thanks @Laudenlaruto, getting this PR out of WIP ... after 9 month waiting for a bit of doc ;)
***

**smaftoul** commented *Mar 27, 2023*

@denis256 can I request a review on this ?
***

**Laudenlaruto** commented *May 23, 2023*

Hey @denis256 can I request a review ? :) 
***

**denis256** commented *May 24, 2023*

```
[INFO] Initializing environment for https://github.com/gruntwork-io/pre-commit.
Terraform fmt............................................................Passed
goimports................................................................Failed
- hook id: goimports
- files were modified by this hook

cli/cli_app.go
configstack/module.go
configstack/module.go
cli/cli_app.go
configstack/module.go
```
***

**Laudenlaruto** commented *Jul 13, 2023*

Up on the review @denis256  :)
***

**Laudenlaruto** commented *Jul 24, 2023*

> Also, there are no tests in this pull request, how we will know in the future that this feature will continue to work without it?
> 
> Some examples can be found in `integration_test.go`, `TestRenderJsonAttributesMetadata`

I've implemented a test close to the `TestTerragruntOutputFromDependency` test. WDYT ?
***

**denis256** commented *Jul 24, 2023*

Looks like CI build is failing:
```
Stderr: # github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/cli
cli/cli_app.go:643:50: not enough arguments in call to configstack.FindStackInSubfolders
	have (*options.TerragruntOptions)
	want (*options.TerragruntOptions, *config.TerragruntConfig)
```
***

**Laudenlaruto** commented *Jul 25, 2023*

> Looks like CI build is failing:
> 
> ```
> Stderr: # github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/cli
> cli/cli_app.go:643:50: not enough arguments in call to configstack.FindStackInSubfolders
> 	have (*options.TerragruntOptions)
> 	want (*options.TerragruntOptions, *config.TerragruntConfig)
> ```

Fixed ðŸ”¨ 
***

