# Add ability to disable auto-approve

**yorinasub17** commented *Jun 22, 2022*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

Fixes #2151

This implements a new flag `--terragrunt-no-auto-approve` which will prevent terragrunt from automatically including the `-auto-approve` flag to `apply` and `destroy` calls for `run-all`. In order to make the prompts work correctly, Terragrunt will also automatically set parallelism to `1`.

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [x] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Added new flag `--terragrunt-no-auto-approve` which will prevent terragrunt from automatically including the `-auto-approve` flag to `apply` and `destroy` calls for `run-all`. In order to make the prompts work correctly, Terragrunt will also automatically set parallelism to `1`.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Jun 22, 2022*

Thanks for review! Going to merge in now.

> I was thinking that will be helpful to have tests that will ensure if this flag will continue to work as expected in future

I was thinking about tests too, but unfortunately, this is a flag that is hard to test due to the interactive prompt nature.
***

