# Readme improvements

**conorgil** commented *May 12, 2017*

I have spent the last few days getting up to speed on Terragrunt, both for use and development. Overall, I think that the README contains excellent content, but there is just a LOT of it. IMO, users almost need to read the entire document to know which commands, configuration, options, etc are available to them and how best to use them. These changes aim to move in the direction of making it easier to find the necessary information within the README more quickly and make it more digestible to users seeing it for the first time.

This PR mainly consists of larger organizational changes and smaller edits to content. I have tried to make each commit a complete set of changes for a distinct idea, so review may be easier by looking at each commit in sequential order.

I should have broken this PR down into smaller chunks to make review easier, but I got carried away making changes. Sorry. Actually, there are more changes I would like to propose, but I will open a PR for each distinct idea so that we can discuss the change, more easily track the change, and make review easier.

This PR includes:
* Moves migration information into a separate document and links to it from the README
* Change helper function terminology to align more closely with Terraform terminology of interpolation syntax and built-in functions
* Update the development section to include information on AWS creds, AWS IAM profiles, and installing required dependencies
* Adds table of contents (ToC) to the top of the README and each sub section
* Updates the short description of Terragrunt to remove "locking"
* Enhance the installation instructions

I realize that there is a lot of change proposed here, so feel free to pick and choose what you like and I will make the necessary changes to get the PR containing only the desired content/changes.

Fixes #204 
Fixes #202 
<br />
***


**conorgil** commented *May 12, 2017*

This also fixes the broken link mentioned in #202 
***

**josh-padnick** commented *May 15, 2017*

Thanks for the fixes, @conorgil! I'll do a final readthrough in the next day or so so we can get this merged.
***

**brikis98** commented *May 17, 2017*

These changes look great. Thank you!

@josh-padnick Take a look and if you have no remaining concerns, please merge.
***

**conorgil** commented *May 17, 2017*

I have one last change to make regarding the IAM policies before we merge.
I'll get to that in a few hours and comment when it's ready for final merge

***

**conorgil** commented *May 17, 2017*

@josh-padnick @brikis98 I think that all review comments have been addressed and this PR is ready to be merged. Shout if I missed anything.
***

**josh-padnick** commented *May 18, 2017*

@conorgil Thanks for all your work on this and this is a great improvement! I'm just about to submit a final review. One point of confusion I saw that wasn't in your changes but would be a nice final addition is this sample code:

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/216/files#diff-04c6e90faac2675aa89e2176d2eec7d8L375

It'd be great if we made it explicit that this `terraform {}` block is in the `.tf` files, not the `terragrunt.tfvars` file. 
***

**conorgil** commented *May 18, 2017*

@josh-padnick I missed your comment about the sample code. Unfortunately, that github link does not bring me to a specific line, so I'm not sure which spot you're talking about. Possible to comment directly on the file/line?
***

**josh-padnick** commented *May 19, 2017*

@conorgil I was referring to the code sample just above [this line](https://github.com/conorgil/terragrunt/blob/readme_improvements/README.md#filling-in-remote-state-settings-with-terragrunt). It's a nit, though, so I'll go ahead and merge. Thanks again for taking the lead on this! It's a big help!
***

