# support init tencentcloud cos

**hellertang** commented *Jun 27, 2022*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

[Fixes #000.](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/2165#issue-1285104836)

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [x] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Added feature to init tencentcloud cos when bucket not exist.

### Migration Guide

<!-- Important: If you made any backward incompatible changes, then you must write a migration guide! -->


<br />
***


**hellertang** commented *Jun 28, 2022*

please review
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jun 28, 2022*

Hi, thanks for the contribution!

Unfortunately, we won't be able to accept this contribution into Terragrunt, primarily because we don't have internal expertise for this platform, and also because we won't be able to setup testing against it. This makes it almost impossible to maintain in our repo.

We are evaluating ways to revamp Terragrunt's cloud integrations to be handled in a way that is more modular and plugin based (see https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1840), which should make it easier to have third party plugins that are separately maintained. But for now, we won't be able to accept any contribution for Terragrunt that integrates with cloud other than the three major public clouds (AWS, GCP, Azure) and Kubernetes.

Sorry that it wasn't clear before you started working on this! I will be closing this PR since we won't be able to accept the contribution, but you are free to maintain the fork, and be sure to watch that referenced issue above so you are notified when we have a plugin architecture that you can integrate this into.
***

