# Use faster hashing approach when handling local module sources

**Sinjo** commented *Jun 28, 2022*

The current approach to hashing (sha256 of the file contents of each
module) is very slow on large module trees due to a combination of doing
lots of File I/O and spending lots of CPU time on running sha256
calculations.

This manifests as Terragrunt spending 5+ minutes at 100% CPU at the
beginning of every run, with no output.

This commit takes a faster, if slightly less perfect, approach to
determining if a local module has had its files modified. Rather than
hashing the entire contents of each file, it takes the `mtime` of the
file (obtained through a cheap `stat` call), appends that to the file
name, and hashes that combined string.

The downside of this approach is that if a file has been written to
since we last copied the module, we'll copy it again. Thankfully, that
is exceedingly unlikely to happen in the middle of a Terragrunt run.

---

Fixes #2154.

I've tested this by running `terragrunt plan` on some of our stacks and it seems to do the trick. I no longer get a really long startup phase where Terragrunt is at 100% CPU.

The one thing that's still on my mind is that I'm slightly confused by the original PR that added this. On my machine `terragrunt plan` takes pretty much the same amount of time with or without the optimisation to avoid copying source directories multiple times. I can only assume that there are other setups (maybe different hardware, or a different pattern of modules/stacks to the one we have) where that's not the case, but I can't reproduce the slowness when I get rid of the caching completely (by running pre-0.37.3 versions of Terragrunt).

That said, if you're 👍🏻 on this faster hashing, it definitely fixes the 100% CPU for 5 minutes problem for me, and I'm happy to run with it.
<br />
***


**Sinjo** commented *Jul 5, 2022*

@denis256 I've made all those changes. Can't believe I missed that `rand.Read` can fail 🤦🏻‍♂️ 

I also figured out a stronger test for the caching behaviour that includes writing a version file and checking we don't copy the local source again afterwards, and I've pushed it in a separate commit.
***

