# Fix bug in render-json with dependency and locals

**yorinasub17** commented *Jul 12, 2022*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

Fixes https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/2189

This fixes a bug in `render-json` where the `dependency` blocks were not always rendered out, as well as with `locals`. This happens when there are `include` blocks and `dependency` is set on the child. The reason for each is slightly different, although the core is the same - we were intentionally not merging these blocks in the merge operation.

### Why don't we merge locals?

We don't merge locals intentionally because we don't want to confuse the parsing engine and introduce a bug where Locals become Globals. Locals are intentionally meant to be a local variable that is only in scope for the current config. Thus, if we start merging them with `include`, then they can pollute the included config and become globals instead of locals.

However, because we don't merge them in the include, the Locals on the top level child config gets lost in the `render-json` command because we always returned the merged config, and we don't merge up the locals.

This is fixed in this PR by setting the `Locals` attribute on the merged config to the value of the top level config.

### Why don't we merge TerragruntDependencies (dependency blocks)?

Dependencies need to be available during the parsing step, and not after the full config is rendered. Because we handle `include` blocks at the end, we were deliberately ignoring dependency blocks because they were already merged before we get to the step.

However, because we don't merge through the dependency blocks, the attribute `TerragruntDependencies` wasn't accurate on the parsed config because we weren't updating this attribute when we actually merge the dependencies together.

Therefore, to fix this, in this PR I added the merge routine for `TerragruntDependencies` to the include handler.

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [x] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Fixed a bug in `render-json` where `dependency` blocks and `locals` information were lost in the resulting rendered config.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Jul 13, 2022*

Thanks for reviews! Merging now.
***

**lachlankrautz** commented *Jul 13, 2022*

Running render-json now outputs `{"locals": null}`. Isn't the purpose of render-json to help check variables and expressions have evaluated correctly? How can we check the true value of locals now?
***

