# based on reported issue #2158, removed the trailing slash appended to get_path_to_repo_root()

**eightseventhreethree** commented *Jul 25, 2022*

 and updated tests to match

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

Fixes #2158.

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [x] Update the docs. (Docs already show this desired state)
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [x] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes
* Removes trailing slash appended to the end of `get_path_to_repo_root()`


<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Added / Removed / Updated [].

### Migration Guide
* Migration:
  * `source = "${get_path_to_repo_root()}/` -> `source = "${get_path_to_repo_root()}//`
<!-- Important: If you made any backward incompatible changes, then you must write a migration guide! -->


<br />
***


**eightseventhreethree** commented *Aug 30, 2022*

@yorinasub17 @zackproser @rhoboat @denis256 Hey, is there anything else required to get this merged?
***

**denis256** commented *Aug 30, 2022*

Hi,
I will review soon this PR too
***

**eightseventhreethree** commented *Sep 26, 2022*

@denis256 Any updates?
***

**jarpoole** commented *Sep 9, 2023*

@denis256 @levkohimins Any updates on this? Just spent a few hours debugging only to eventually discover the issue and related PR are extremely simple which is really disheartening...

***

**levkohimins** commented *Sep 18, 2023*

@eightseventhreethree, thanks for the PR! 
I had to create another [PR](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/2719) to improve the integration test since I couldn't change your PR (branch).
***

**levkohimins** commented *Sep 18, 2023*

Resolved in [v0.51.1](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.51.1) release.
***

**jarpoole** commented *Sep 18, 2023*

Really appreciate you following up! Thanks for all the hard work on this amazing tool 🙂
***

