# Adds regex to retry errors when backend initialization fails

**lorengordon** commented *Oct 11, 2022*

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

Adds regex to retry errors when backend initialization fails

Fixes #2305

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [x] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Added regex to retry errors when backend initialization fails.

<br />
***


**Etiene** commented *Dec 1, 2022*

Thanks for submitting a PR! I'm not sure why this case should be in the default retries, though. Specially since, as you mentioned in your issue, you could resolve it by using a custom config. Have you tested what will happen when there's an actual credential error instead of the occasional rate-limiting problem? 
***

**lorengordon** commented *Dec 1, 2022*

If there is an actual credential error, it just retries a few times until it fails anyway. "Occasional" was a bit of an understatement. It's easy to reproduce in a larger config, such that it happens quite frequently.

It would be much more straightforward to add these only on the user end, if it were possible to extend the default set of retryable errors. But having to specify every retryable error in the user config makes it hard to maintain. Hence the PR to deal with it upstream. [Edit: See [#1383](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/1383)]

***

