# fix AES256 encryption validation

**kevcube** commented *Oct 26, 2022*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

Fixes # (haven't made an issue for this)

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

Validation of encryption settings only ever worked on buckets that used aws:kms encryption - if you created a bucket that used AES256, terragrunt would complain on the second run that your bucket was out of date, and would offer to fix it. If you accepted the fix, it does nothing, but it continues to attempt to "fix" on every init

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [ ] Update the docs.
- [ ] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [ ] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [ ] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Fixed validation of encryption settings for buckets that use AES256 Encryption,

### Migration Guide

<!-- Important: If you made any backward incompatible changes, then you must write a migration guide! -->


<br />
***


**denis256** commented *Nov 10, 2022*

Unit test execution failed, PR needs to be updated with changes from master
***

**kevcube** commented *Nov 10, 2022*

@denis256 updated
***

**denis256** commented *Dec 1, 2022*

Hi, 
looks like this PR needs to be updated with master:
```
Conflicting files
remote/remote_state_s3.go
```
***

**kevcube** commented *Dec 1, 2022*

Yes, currently traveling though. I believe you as a maintainer have permission to push to my fork if you’d like.On Dec 1, 2022, at 13:04, Denis O ***@***.***> wrote:﻿
Hi,
looks like this PR needs to be updated with master:
Conflicting files
remote/remote_state_s3.go


—Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub, or unsubscribe.You are receiving this because you authored the thread.Message ID: ***@***.***>
***

**kevcube** commented *Dec 3, 2022*

@denis256 updated
***

**kevcube** commented *Dec 9, 2022*

@denis256 able to review?
***

**pitthecat** commented *Jan 31, 2023*

Merging this fix would be highly appreciated 
***

