# Expose a token for tflint 

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Dec 9, 2022*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

This fixes https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/2386

## Notes:
~I feel uncomfortable with this change, although it will probably achieve what we need for tflint. I would prefer if we could handle this on the tflint rule side somehow. I'll work on that option too.~

It seems like as we [discussed](https://gruntwork-io.slack.com/archives/C01LR3Q5LJH/p1670609104509099?thread_ts=1670608510.418979&cid=C01LR3Q5LJH) internally, this may be the only way we've got for now. 

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

## Testing:
- watch after 15sec.
- Video recorded shows how running the tflint hook works without the fix from this branch, and how it works after calling a custom TG build with the code from this branch:
 https://asciinema.org/a/5y73haP23k781tmcj8KxBHq7o
 
 ### To replicate this locally:
 1. Pull latest `terragrunt` from the `master` branch and build it.
 2. Pull code from https://github.com/gruntwork-patcher-dev/terragrunt-tflint-example/tree/main/dev/eu-central-1/data-stores
 3. In the place where you pulled the example code - e.g. `gruntwork-io/terragrunt-tflint-example/dev/eu-central-1/data-stores`, run `aws-vault exec sbox -- terragrunt (master branch) plan`
 4. You will see an error from `tflint` that shows basically the lack of authentication for downloading the ruleset for `tflint`
 ```
 INFO[0000] Executing hook: tflint                        prefix=[/Users/in4o/repositories/gruntwork-io/terragrunt-tflint-example/dev/eu-central-1/data-stores]
Installing `aws-cis` plugin...
No signing key configured. Set `signing_key` to verify that the release is signed by the plugin developer
Failed to install a plugin; Failed to fetch GitHub releases: GET https://api.github.com/repos/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/releases/tags/v0.42.2: 404 Not Found []
ERRO[0000] Error running hook tflint with message: Error while running tflint with args: [tflint --init --config /Users/in4o/repositories/gruntwork-io/terragrunt-tflint-example/.tflint.hcl /Users/in4o/repositories/gruntwork-io/terragrunt-tflint-example/dev/eu-central-1/data-stores/.terragrunt-cache/aEojylF2H6RhmCuAbY0rX77YIqY/yosiWh_5Lq4oIBkZb5_Iiwo6A38/modules/redshift]  prefix=[/Users/in4o/repositories/gruntwork-io/terragrunt-tflint-example/dev/eu-central-1/data-stores]
.....
 ```
5. Now, in the same folder expose your `GITHUB_OAUTH_TOKEN` and run the same `terragrunt` command again 
6. This won't work either, since we're still exporting a token that `tflint` doesn't recognise
7. Now, build locally the code from this branch 
```
git checkout expose-tflint-token
cd terragrunt 
go build . 
mv terragrunt /usr/local/bin/terragrunt-with-token-fix
```
8. In the same example folder, without changing anything, run
```
aws-vault exec sbox -- terragrunt-with-token-fix plan
```
9. This should work

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [x] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

- Expose `GITHUB_OAUTH_TOKEN` to the `tflint` hook as `GITHUB_TOKEN`. This allows users to run `tflint` with rulesets for `tflint` hosted in private repositories.

<br />
***


**ina-stoyanova** commented *Dec 9, 2022*

@denis256 thank you for the review and approval! I will work on adding an integration test for this as you recommended, and then let's review again! But thank you for the approval, since it unblocks me to proceed with the other work for tflint! 🙏🙏🙏 
***

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Dec 12, 2022*

It's important to note that:
- we need this PR merged in for the `tflint` work for the EU team 
- I've realised a very simple alternative solution is to ask our users to expose the token `GITHUB_TOKEN` explicitly for the `tflint` hook to work.
  - but thinking through the drawbacks of medling with tokens in `terragrunt`, I think:
    - `terragrunt` to expose a variable as another one is a safe operation - we never log, or expose the value. The risks of terragrunt exposing this extra ENV var are as significant as if the user did it manually. 
***

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Dec 12, 2022*

@denis256 I've struggled to see what valuable tests I could add. Let's merge this PR, and add a separate one with tests if you can guide me through that!

Note: 
- I've added some docs to the `terragrunt` website part
- also added a `how to test` section in the description of this PR, so you'll have more context on what this change allows us to do
- added a `release` section in the description of this PR
***

**ina-stoyanova** commented *Dec 13, 2022*

Test failures were happening before this issue and PR were opened. There's 2 separate issues now: #2393 #2394 
***

