# Add a new `--terragrunt-iam-profile` option for the session when assuming the `--terragrunt-iam-role`.

**jlepere-everlaw** commented *Mar 2, 2023*

## Description

My organization would like to make use of the `iam_role` attribute to take advantage of benefits outlined in [1]. However, we aren't able to do so because the profile we'd need to use when assuming the `iam_role` is parsed in the `terragrunt.hcl` file.

This commit adds a new option to specify an iam profile via an `iam_profile` attribute (plus `--terragrunt-iam-profile` cli and `TERRAGRUNT_IAM_PROFILE` env var options) to support this workflow.

[1] https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/features/work-with-multiple-aws-accounts/#configuring-terragrunt-to-assume-an-iam-role

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
  - I'd appreciate some help on ^. I've tried running the tests as outlined [here](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/community/contributing/#running-tests), but I don't think my environment is set up correctly (although I could be mistaken). I have validate that this solves works by testing locally as outlined [here](--terragrunt-iam-role "arn:aws:iam::730118560661:role/RELEASE_MIGRATION_SHUTDOWN-FUTURE").
- [x] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Added a `--terragrunt-iam-profile` option to specify the profile for the session when assuming the [--terragrunt-iam-role](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/reference/cli-options/#terragrunt-iam-role).

### Migration Guide

n/a
<br />
***


**denis256** commented *Mar 4, 2023*

Hi, looks like some of unit tests fail:
```
TestTerragruntConfigAsCtyDrift
Failed
config_as_cty_test.go:225: Unknown struct property: IamProfile
```

```
TestParseIamRole
Failed
config_test.go:240: terragrunt.hcl:2,1-2: Argument or block definition required; An argument or block definition is required here.
```
***

**jlepere-everlaw** commented *Mar 6, 2023*

> Hi, looks like some of unit tests fail:
> 
> ```
> TestTerragruntConfigAsCtyDrift
> Failed
> config_as_cty_test.go:225: Unknown struct property: IamProfile
> ```
> 
> ```
> TestParseIamRole
> Failed
> config_test.go:240: terragrunt.hcl:2,1-2: Argument or block definition required; An argument or block definition is required here.
> ```

Thanks, @denis256. Updated.
***

**jlepere-everlaw** commented *Mar 13, 2023*

@denis256 / @zackproser, lightest of bumps. Thank you!
***

**jlepere-everlaw** commented *Mar 28, 2023*

@denis256 / @zackproser, another light bump here. Please let me know if there's anything I can help with!
***

**jlepere-everlaw** commented *May 2, 2023*

@denis256, light bump. Please let me know if there's anything I can help with here or if there's another process I should follow! :pray: 
***

**denis256** commented *May 3, 2023*

hi, 
I think this branch should be updated with the last changes from master - CICD job is failing now with credentials issues which are now fixed in master
***

**jlepere-everlaw** commented *May 4, 2023*

> hi, I think this branch should be updated with the last changes from master - CICD job is failing now with credentials issues which are now fixed in master

Thanks, @denis256. Updated!
***

**jlepere-everlaw** commented *May 15, 2023*

> > hi, I think this branch should be updated with the last changes from master - CICD job is failing now with credentials issues which are now fixed in master
> 
> Thanks, @denis256. Updated!

@denis256, it looks like it passed!?
***

**jlepere-everlaw** commented *Jul 19, 2023*

@denis256, bump.
***

