# fix: redirecting stdout to stderr in hook commands

**levkohimins** commented *Jun 1, 2023*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

Fixed redirecting stdout to stderr in hook commands. Also added a new option `suppress_stdout` to the hook configuration when it needs to avoid displaying the stdout of the hook command.

Fixes #2561 

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [ ] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

Fixed redirecting stdout to stderr in hook commands

### Migration Guide

<!-- Important: If you made any backward incompatible changes, then you must write a migration guide! -->

Before these changes, the output of commands from all hooks was displayed from stdout to `terragrunt` stderr, and after the changes, the output displays respectively stdout to stdout and stderr to stderr. Related to this, if `terragrunt` stdout output is used for later parsing,  it might be worth considering suspending the output of hook commands with the new `suppress_stdout` hook attribute.
<br />
***


**denis256** commented *Jun 1, 2023*

Related integration tests seems to fail:
* TestTerragruntInitHookWithSourceNoBackend
* TestTerragruntBeforeAfterAndErrorMergeHook
***

**levkohimins** commented *Jun 1, 2023*

> Related integration tests seems to fail:
> 
> * TestTerragruntInitHookWithSourceNoBackend
> * TestTerragruntBeforeAfterAndErrorMergeHook

Oh yes, sorry, I knew about these, it was just too late, I had to go to bed, and left these errors for the next day. Now all tests are passed, please review again.
***

