# fix: set noisy Window console log entry to debug

**robcortez** commented *Jun 1, 2023*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

When running on Windows, Terragrunt output is extremely noisy due to an error calling `GetConsoleMode`. The following "error" message is output multiple times for each Terragrunt command run:

```
time=0000-00-00T00:00:00Z level=error msg=failed to get console mode: The handle is invalid.
```

This result in very noisy output and when run in a pipeline, cluttered build logs. 

This has no impact on functionality or the result of the run. Since it has no impact and would only be useful for debugging purposes, I propose setting its log level to debug. This would keep the output clean for the average user while allowing it to be output when setting the Terragrunt log level to debug. 

Although it does not technically fix the underlying issue with the `GetConsoleMode` call, it does keep the output clean and that's what users are complaining about in the issue linked below. 

Fixes #1854.

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [x] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Added / Removed / Updated [X].

Log `GetConsoleMode` errors on Windows as `debug` rather than `error`

### Migration Guide

<!-- Important: If you made any backward incompatible changes, then you must write a migration guide! -->


<br />
***


**robcortez** commented *Jun 14, 2023*

Hi @zackproser & @denis256, 

Just wanted to gently bump this one and try to get it on your radar. It's a 1 line change so the review, itself, should be quick. 
***

**denis256** commented *Jun 15, 2023*

Hi,
wanted to highlight a couple of issues with this PR:
 * there are no tests to validate that fix will continue to work over time and will not appear
 * switching to Debugf for all errors may shallow other important error messages which will not be visible
***

**robcortez** commented *Jun 15, 2023*

As for hiding important error messages, the error message that gets logged here is not critical and does not impact the execution at all. It only pertains to the format of the output being displayed. While this may be useful information, I don't think it qualifies as an `error` level log. It can still be be seen during development by modifying the log level. 
***

**robcortez** commented *Aug 8, 2023*

Wanted to bump this one. I know this is an issue many are having (see linked issue). It continues to pollute Azure Devops logs and `terragrunt output` commands.

Can we revisit this solution as a quick and low risk, high reward fix? 
***

**zackproser** commented *Aug 10, 2023*

Hi @robcortez - one logistical point - I'm no longer working at Gruntwork so unfortunately I will not be able to help out with this. 

Best, 
Zack
***

**denis256** commented *Aug 10, 2023*

Hello,
can we add a check for a specific error of getting console mode and send it to debug? and other errors to go to Errorf
***

**denis256** commented *Sep 18, 2023*

Fixed in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/2711
***

