# Performance enhancement of GitTopLevelDir in shell pkg

**RaphSku** commented *Aug 16, 2023*

## Description

Fixes #2344.

- GitTopLevelDir will only run `git rev-parse --show-toplevel` at the beginning and then re-use the previously found git root path
- A simple benchmark test is added in order to compare the old code vs. the new code in terms of performance

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [X] Update the docs.
I didn't update the docs since I am not changing any function signatures or behavior, I am just making the specified code more efficient. If I missed some document where my change chould be described or added to, please tell me.

- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

GitTopLevelDir will only run `git rev-parse --show-toplevel` at the beginning and then re-use the previously found git root path
Added / Removed / Updated [X].

## Gist
Gist: https://gist.github.com/RaphSku/8cb9aae84ea374de85d621b6cc6bf8f5
for the test output and benchmark


<br />
***


**RaphSku** commented *Aug 25, 2023*

@denis256 Okay, so I have added a test for the caching. Previously, the StringCache, etc. were all in the config package. The problem with that is, that I cannot use them in the shell package due to circular import. So I have moved out all of the caches except the `TerragruntConfigCache` into a separate package. 

Also, I have made the cache structs generic with type constraint since the implementation of the `StringCache` and `options.IAMRoleOptions` are practically identical. 

This approach also supports multiple git repos now. I have also updated the gist with the new test output and new benchmark. The benchmark is almost identical to the previous one.
***

**joaocc** commented *Sep 16, 2023*

Hi. Any updates on merging this PR? Thanks
***

**denis256** commented *Sep 18, 2023*

Hi,
should be fixed conflicts on files:
```
Conflicting files
config/config.go
```
***

**RaphSku** commented *Sep 20, 2023*

@denis256 I've updated the branch and fixed the conflict
***

**denis256** commented *Oct 24, 2023*

This PR still misses integration tests(`test` directory) which will validate that `git rev-parse` is executed only once and cached value is returned
***

