# Add enabled property for dependency

**denis256** commented *Sep 13, 2023*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

Included changes:
* added property `enabled` to `dependency`
* added logic to skip dependency if `enabled = false`
* added tests to track that flag is working

Fixes #1483.

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [x] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Added / Removed / Updated [X].

Added `enabled` property on `dependency` block, once set to `false` - dependency will be skipped.

### Migration Guide

<!-- Important: If you made any backward incompatible changes, then you must write a migration guide! -->


<br />
***


**jlepere-everlaw** commented *Sep 14, 2023*

Should we inject `mock_outputs` into the dependency variable's outputs if `enabled = false`? Otherwise, we'd have to add a ternary for each dependency output usage based on the `enabled` properties value.

I've also found that I've had to create an empty file for the dependency to get this to work, but that's a separate problem that could be an issue with something on my end.
***

**denis256** commented *Sep 15, 2023*

Hello,
will be helpful to raise a separate enhancement issue to see how this can be implemented

***

**jlepere-everlaw** commented *Oct 6, 2023*

> Hello, will be helpful to raise a separate enhancement issue to see how this can be implemented

The main reason I ask here is because it's not clear to me how this is meant to be used in practice. In particular, it seems like the only time `enabled` would be beneficial is if it's variable (i.e `enabled = local.has_dependency_x`). Otherwise, the dependency wouldn't need `enabled` (it would always exist) or we wouldn't need it at all (no `dependency` block).

In the variable case, it's not clear to me what the expectation is for dependency outputs. If the dependency is `enabled = false`, what's the expectation for outputs that we'd otherwise reference?

It seems to me that we're not injecting mocked outputs, which I think would be the answer here. I could be missing something.
***

