# [WIP] Support for passing environment variables to dependency blocks

**juljaeg** commented *Oct 17, 2023*

## Description

Fixes #2674.

Introduces the ability to pass environment variables to terragrunt configurations which are referenced using the `dependency` block. There can be general environment variables being passed to every dependency but also environment variables (merged additively) per dependency. The existing `get_env` function including falling to a default to retreive a value and act accordingly.

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [ ] Update the docs.
- [ ] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [ ] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.
- [ ] Add some tests.

## Known Issues

- [ ] The top-level attribute `dependency_env_vars` currently is not respected (help appreciated).
- [ ] The attribute on the `dependency` block is required even tho it can be empty (help appreciated).

## Target situation

Fixture `test/fixture-dependency-variables` can be used as an example.

```bash
cd test/fixture-dependency-variables/module-a

VARIANT=a terragrunt apply
terragrunt apply
// Should have terraform-a.tfstate and terraform-default.tfstate now.

cd ../module-b
terragrunt apply
// Is:     Hello World, from B: Hello World, from A: default
// Should: Hello World, from B: Hello World, from A: a
```

Currently it works when the file is changed to be (see known issues):

```
# File: module-b/terragrunt.hcl
dependency "a" {
  config_path = "../module-a"

  # Can be optional.
  env_vars = {
    "VARIANT" = "a"
  }
}

[...]
```


## Release Notes (draft)

Added support for passing variables to terragrunt modules being included as dependencies.

### Migration Guide

No migration needed.


<br />
***


