# Fix output-module-groups failing if terragrunt.hcl file not found in working dir

**evsl** commented *Oct 20, 2023*

## Description

Fixes #2685

After a quick look, it seems like the changes introduced from 73d2c83 added (seemingly unnecessary?) code in the Run func for `output-module-groups` which treated it as if it were a terraform command, which would of course need to find the root configuration in order to build the temp dir in which to run terraform. 

I updated the relevant test to move the `terragrunt.hcl` file out of the root of the working directory in the context of the test, which indeed caused it to fail as described in the issue. Removing the terraform invocation from the action matches the documented behavior and all relevant tests pass.

This is my first contribution to this repo and I've only dug through enough code to identify the root cause at a high level, so please let me know if I've misunderstood the intent of the code I removed.

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [x] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

Updated `output-module-groups` to no longer require a `terragrunt.hcl` file in the working directory.



<br />
***


**denis256** commented *Oct 24, 2023*

Hello,
It would be helpful to add an integration test that will track whether this issue will not occur again.

Examples in: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/tree/master/test
***

