# Add support for role_arn

**brikis98** commented *Oct 17, 2017*

Fixes #290. If you specify the `role_arn` parameter in your S3 backend config, Terragrunt will now automatically assume that IAM role before configuring remote state, creating the S3 bucket, creating the DynamoDB table, etc. This is very useful for multi-account setups where you may need to assume an IAM role in another account.
<br />
***


**FernandoMiguel** commented *Oct 18, 2017*

I'm quite interested in this addition.
In our setup, we run terraform from a jenkins host. that EC2 instance has an EC2 role attached that grants it access to a bucket in that account for *all* state files

different parts of terraform will then build/manage resources in different accounts.

What does this mean for terragrunt ?
Will the buckets be created in each account that it assumes the role? 
or will it be in the jenkins account? do I need a policy to allow the other accounts to write back to jenkins account?

thanks
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 18, 2017*

If you specify a `role_arn` parameter in your backend configuration, (a) Terragrunt will assume that IAM role when checking to see if it needs to create an S3 bucket or DynamoDB table and (b) Terraform will assume that IAM role when using the S3 bucket and DynamoDB table. If that IAM role lives in another AWS account, that means the S3 bucket and DynamoDB table must be in that account too and that IAM role must have access to them.  
***

**FernandoMiguel** commented *Oct 18, 2017*

yeah, thank you for confirming my reasoning.

I'll have to create policies to handle this, and wont get to benefit from terragrunt to create the buckets on init :( 

maybe a feature for the future
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 18, 2017*

> and wont get to benefit from terragrunt to create the buckets on init :(

Wait, why is that? Can you describe your use case a bit more?
***

**FernandoMiguel** commented *Oct 18, 2017*

Well, terragrunt has the ability to create the state files on s3 when the user is creating a new environment.
Since I'm creating many accounts with several envs in each in DRY format, it becomes simpler than having a terraform creating the few buckets we need and than using them for each module 
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 18, 2017*

Sorry, I'm still not following. Is your goal to use a single S3 bucket for all AWS accounts? Or a separate bucket for each AWS account?

If you just want a single bucket in a single account, then either don't specify `role_arn` at all or specify the IAM role for that one account, and Terragrunt will create the bucket in it (if it doesn't already exist). If you want a bucket in each account, then specify a different `role_arn` for each of those accounts, and Terragrunt will assume an IAM role in that account and create the bucket in it (if it doesn't already exist). You can even read `role_arn` from environment variables if you want to make it easy to modify:

```hcl
terragrunt = {
  remote_state {
    backend = "s3" 
    config {
      bucket = "..."
      role_arn = "${get_env("ROLE_ARN", "some-fallback-value")}"
    } 
  }
}
```
***

**QuingKhaos** commented *Nov 2, 2017*

@brikis98 Thank you so much for the addition, this was the final piece missing to use terragrunt
***

