# Remove subdirectories before copying files to them

**kevinburke** commented *Oct 31, 2017*

If a file in a subdirectory has permissions of 444, we will attempt to
open it for writing in util.CopyFile before overwriting it. This
fails because the file is read-only.

Instead remove all files in subdirectories. This shouldn't be much
slower than the current procedure, because we are still overwriting
every file every time, we're just starting from an empty file tree
instead of a full file tree. This also avoids the problem where run
1 produces file A, and run 2 does not have file A, but it exists in
the cache.

Fixes #337.
<br />
***


**kevinburkeotto** commented *Oct 31, 2017*

This is blocked on #335 (and I guess #336), or you adding me as a contributor to the project, you removing the requirement to have tests pass before merging changes, or you pulling down and running the tests manually in a clean AWS account.
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 31, 2017*

Running tests locally now...
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 31, 2017*

A bunch of tests failed. Some of the errors look like this:

```
[terragrunt] [fixture-old-terragrunt-config/download] 2017/10/31 23:36:58 Running command: terraform init -from-module=file:///Users/brikis98/source/go/src/github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/test/fixture-old-terragrunt-config/hello-world /var/folders/39/w935myd14p9197wbp67pz4940000gn/T/terragrunt/lZQRK2TqaEUhn3UvKhF5fNxpljk/jjLRfkf7pYvGKBwdLKFuRON8uLo
Copying configuration from "file:///Users/brikis98/source/go/src/github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/test/fixture-old-terragrunt-config/hello-world"...
Downloading modules...

Initializing provider plugins...
Plugin reinitialization required. Please run "terraform init".
Reason: Could not satisfy plugin requirements.

Plugins are external binaries that Terraform uses to access and manipulate
resources. The configuration provided requires plugins which can't be located,
don't satisfy the version constraints, or are otherwise incompatible.

1 error(s) occurred:

* provider.template: new or changed plugin executable

Terraform automatically discovers provider requirements from your
configuration, including providers used in child modules. To see the
requirements and constraints from each module, run "terraform providers".

error satisfying plugin requirements
```

And some like this:

```
Error downloading modules: Error loading modules: module remote: No Terraform configuration files found in directory: .terraform/modules/3de0b4d8458c5b95796bcc1ab4263679
```

I'm guessing what's happening is the following:

1. Terragrunt downloads the code into a tmp folder. 
1. Terragrunt calls `init` in that tmp folder to download all the modules, providers, and initialize remote state. All of this Terraform stores in a `.terraform` folder within that tmp folder.
1. Terragrunt calls the updated `CopyFolderContents` method, which deletes everything in the folder, including the `.terraform` folder. 
1. Now when the `plan` or `apply` command are executed, none of the modules are providers are there, and you get an error.

I think you may have to delete the individual files rather than the hold folder.
***

**kevinburkeotto** commented *Oct 31, 2017*

Are you sure that isn't this problem? https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/334

Do the tests pass on master?
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 31, 2017*

Yes, tests pass on master. I'm fairly confident the problem is as I described it above. 
***

**kevinburkeotto** commented *Oct 31, 2017*

ok
***

**brikis98** commented *Nov 1, 2017*

BTW, I'm running these tests locally because I know these fixes are important to you, and I appreciate your help in making them, but setting up an AWS account where you have S3/DynamoDB permissions is about 5 min of work, so please try to run the tests after the next change!
***

**kevinburkeotto** commented *Nov 2, 2017*

I can't reproduce the test failures you saw.
***

**kevinburkeotto** commented *Nov 2, 2017*

To clarify, I ran the tests once, then ran again with 

```TF_LOG=debug aws-vault exec testing -- go test -timeout=20m -count=4 ./...```

for a total of 5 test runs, and couldn't reproduce the failure any time.
***

**brikis98** commented *Nov 2, 2017*

Huh. I just checked out this branch again, and the tests passed. I'm... stumped. 
***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 7, 2020*

PR not updated for over 2 years, closing
***

