# locks: add azure_blob lock provider

**pmcatominey** commented *Sep 28, 2016*

Lock is backed by Azure Blob Storage, a Blob is created with the desired name
to acquire the lock and deleted to release it.

<br />
***


**pmcatominey** commented *Sep 28, 2016*

Leasing does not appear to be exposed via the Go SDK so I have raised Azure/azure-sdk-for-go#406. This means that currently the lock is not reliabl concurrently, I'll update this branch when leasing is available.

***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 28, 2016*

Exciting to see this PR and potential Azure support! 

> Leasing does not appear to be exposed via the Go SDK so I have raised Azure/azure-sdk-for-go#406. This means that currently the lock is not reliabl concurrently, I'll update this branch when leasing is available.

Ah, that's a shame. Keep us posted!

***

**brikis98** commented *Dec 6, 2016*

@pmcatominey Any update on this?
***

**ashb** commented *Dec 7, 2016*

The missing feature I think made it into 6.0.0 of the azure SDK: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/commit/5d83dd9eb7e1440081e0b965d33450961d948188
***

**brikis98** commented *Dec 7, 2016*

@ashb Nice find.

@pmcatominey Let us know if you can find time to keep working on this. There is definitely interest in alternate lock providers. Thanks!
***

**brikis98** commented *Apr 20, 2017*

This has not made any progress in over 4 months, and as Terraform 0.9 supports locking natively, we are removing locking from Terragrunt in #167. Therefore, I'm going to close this PR. 
***

**pmcatominey** commented *Jun 21, 2017*

Sorry for the delay, once hashicorp/terraform#13036 is merged then Azure locking will be natively supported by Terraform.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 21, 2017*

@pmcatominey Nice!
***

