# Refactor error handling. Add comments. (review, but DO NOT MERGE)

**brikis98** commented *May 31, 2016*

1. Refactor error handling to a) use custom types for our own errors
   and b) include a stacktrace with all errors. This is a first pass at PT Ticket [#119003093](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/119003093), "Standardize on go-errors for error handling in our Go code". The fact that with Go you have to put in a bunch of work to get stack traces is sad. Also, defining custom error types takes too much damn code, although it's worth it, as it helped me fix one bug already.
2. Update tests to look for specific error types instead of simply
   checking an error is or isn’t nil.
3. Add comments through out the code.

This PR is built on top of #3, so please review, but **DO NOT MERGE**. Once #3 is merged, I’ll reopen this PR against master. 

<br />
***


**josh-padnick** commented *Jun 1, 2016*

Looks good. I ran the [go-errors example](https://github.com/go-errors/errors) to see what the output looks like and it's basically the `panic` output but for regular errors. That's definitely useful. The typing is also interesting, although it's a little weird we mix our own custom go-errors error types with AWS custom error check functions. The overhead of defining a typed error message just to wrap AWS doesn't seem to make sense, though.

So, overall looks good to me! 

Do you think this is a pattern we should adopt for all go projects going forward?  Should we document our go standards somewhere? So far, we've got standards for:
- CLI tool (in process, at least)
- logging
- error handling

Once you respond to comments, feel free to merge.

***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 1, 2016*

> Do you think this is a pattern we should adopt for all go projects going forward? Should we document our go standards somewhere? So far, we've got standards for: 

Yup. As we go back and work on our various Go projects, we should start adopting these standards. 

> CLI tool (in process, at least)

I think we need to get a bit more experience to decide on this, but I'm currently leaning towards urfave/cli for its flexibility and the fact that it is reasonably DRY.

> logging

We have a basic pattern in place, but may need a helper library for Go HTTP servers to support request ids. On the other hand, perhaps we should use an actual web framework for Go HTTP servers that does that for us...

> error handling

The go-error library is good, but not great. I'd like a less verbose way to define and compare custom error types in Go. But, for now, the `errors.go` in this repo is a decent start.

One thing to consider is creating a `gruntwork-cli` or `gruntwork-go-utils` library that encapsulates our standards and to use that library in all our apps.

***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 1, 2016*

I've responded to all comments, so I'm going to close this PR, reopen it against master, and merge it in.

***

