# Allow to specify a different .terragrunt config file

**mildred** commented *Oct 13, 2016*

`--config` on command line or `TERRAGRUNT_CONFIG` environment variable

For issue #25 

<br />
***


**mildred** commented *Oct 17, 2016*

I just ran the tests (`go test ./...`), and the only error I see is:

```
?       github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt  [no test files]
?       github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/cli  [no test files]
ok      github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/config   0.005s
?       github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/errors   [no test files]
ok      github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/locks    0.007s
ok      github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/locks/dynamodb   71.690s
ok      github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/remote   0.004s
?       github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/shell    [no test files]
--- FAIL: TestTerragruntWorksWithLocalTerraformVersion (2.16s)
    integration_test.go:30: The S3 Bucket in the .terragrunt file does not exist. S3 Bucket Name = 'gruntwork-terragrunt-tests'. S3 Bucket Region = 'us-west-2'. Full Error Message = AccessDenied: Access Denied
            status code: 403, request id: A54616C59DE83041
FAIL
FAIL    github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/test 2.166s
?       github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/util [no test files]
```

I suppose I did miss some environment to run the tests.

***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 17, 2016*

@mildred The test failure is not your fault. 

@josh-padnick It looks like the integration test hard-codes the name of the S3 bucket. I thought we saw this before and fixed it, but perhaps I'm imagining things. What's the best way to update this code so other users can run the tests?

***

**josh-padnick** commented *Oct 18, 2016*

@brikis98 We did see this before but agreed to defer it for now. The problem is that we'd have to:
- Create a randomly named S3 Bucket
- Generate a new `.terragrunt` file with the new S3 Bucket Name
- Run the test
- Delete all files in the S3 Bucket
- Delete the S3 Bucket

Not hard, just laborious. Should we create an issue for this?

@mildred In the meantime, here's how you can manually validate the tests. I would make these changes locally but do _not_ commit them:
- Update the [.terragrunt file](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/master/test/fixture/.terragrunt#L17-L19) to specify an S3 Bucket you do have access to.
- Update the [const values](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/master/test/integration_test.go#L19-L20) in `integration_test.go`.

If the tests pass, submit your PR, our CI job's tests should pass with the S3 bucket name as listed, and then we can merge.

Sorry you have to deal with this, we should definitely fix this so contributors don't run into these kinds of issues.

***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 18, 2016*

@josh-padnick Thanks for the context. I created #43 to track this. We should probably fix it fairly soon.

@mildred Please re-run the test as @josh-padnick indicated. If it passes, I think this is good to go!

***

**mildred** commented *Oct 18, 2016*

I ran the tests again on commit 8739c3c74b02dc4facc898348f0b911c0d26fc07 and they passed.

***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 18, 2016*

Excellent. Merging now. Thank you!

***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 18, 2016*

OK, just cut a new release, and once the build completes (assuming no tests fail), the new binaries will show up here: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.1.2

***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 18, 2016*

And the build failed :)

The cause is due to our CI scripts. I'll get a fix out shortly.

***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 18, 2016*

OK, I fixed the build failure and just recreated the new release, so the binaries _should_ show up in a few minutes: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.1.2

***

