# Added support for endpoint and credentials variables in S3 remote state 

**MRinalducci** commented *Feb 26, 2018*

I added support for custom endpoint and credentials variable in the S3 remote state backend for Terragrunt which is used to create bucket and enable versioning if bucket does not exist.

This feature was also asked in issue [#112](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/112).

It uses the following variable as specified in the [Terraform S3 backend documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/backends/types/s3.html):
* endpoint (only for S3)
* access_key
* secret_key

This update was successfully tested with integration tests.
<br />
***


**MRinalducci** commented *Feb 26, 2018*

I also added a custom endpoint resolver which resolve only S3 endpoints and don't impact DynamoDB endpoints.
***

**MRinalducci** commented *Feb 27, 2018*

Thank you for reviewing the PR!
I know this is not the best practice to put credentials in the code. But I'm using it sometimes for testing.
As Terraform supports it, I think it can be confusing for a user if it is not supported by Terragrunt.
In my point of view, the user is responsible how he implements the code.

Moreover, what is the best practice to store credentials of additionnal providers other than AWS?
What do you think of encrypting a .tfvars file containing credentials before commiting it to a private GIT repo? This method could also be used with a file containing the S3 backend with credentials.

However, my principle concern was the ability to specify a custom endpoint in Terragrunt, so if you prefer a can revert the credentials changes.

Finally, I take this opportunity to say that Terragrunt is a really great tool!
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 27, 2018*

> As Terraform supports it, I think it can be confusing for a user if it is not supported by Terragrunt.
In my point of view, the user is responsible how he implements the code.

Yea, it's a tradeoff, but I've found that making it *easy* to do the insecure thing is almost always a bad idea. And the unfortunate reality is that putting the keys in the code really is the easiest thing to do, so people use it way more than they should, which is awful from a security/reusability/etc perspective. 

> However, my principle concern was the ability to specify a custom endpoint in Terragrunt, so if you prefer a can revert the credentials changes.

Unless there's a really compelling use case that can only be done by putting the credentials directly in the code, my vote would be to not support that in Terragrunt for now, and limit this PR to just the custom endpoint.

> Finally, I take this opportunity to say that Terragrunt is a really great tool!

Thanks!
***

**MRinalducci** commented *Feb 27, 2018*

> Yea, it's a tradeoff, but I've found that making it easy to do the insecure thing is almost always a bad idea. And the unfortunate reality is that putting the keys in the code really is the easiest thing to do, so people use it way more than they should, which is awful from a security/reusability/etc perspective.

I understand your point of view which I share too.

> Unless there's a really compelling use case that can only be done by putting the credentials directly in the code, my vote would be to not support that in Terragrunt for now, and limit this PR to just the custom endpoint.

No problem, I reverted the credentials changes as suggested and tested it successfully.
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 27, 2018*

A bunch of tests failed, all with essentially the same error:

```
--- FAIL: TestRemoteWithBackend (1.07s)
	integration_test.go:602: Copying fixture-download/remote-with-backend to /tmp/terragrunt-test495155519
	integration_test.go:592: Failed to run Terragrunt command 'terragrunt apply --terragrunt-non-interactive --terragrunt-working-dir /tmp/terragrunt-test495155519/fixture-download/remote-with-backend' due to error: MissingEndpoint: 'Endpoint' configuration is required for this service
	Error Trace:	integration_test.go:788
			asm_amd64.s:480
			panic.go:340
			testing.go:453
			testing.go:496
			integration_test.go:592
			integration_test.go:587
			integration_test.go:427
	Error:      	Expected nil, but got: &awserr.requestError{awsError:(*awserr.baseError)(0xc420388140), statusCode:400, requestID:"5HMQFNJ31KBRHL1IB27V92B8QVVV4KQNSO5AEMVJF66Q9ASUAAJG"}
	Messages:   	Unexpected error: ResourceNotFoundException: Requested resource not found: Table: terragrunt-lock-table-yy2q5g not found
	            		status code: 400, request id: 5HMQFNJ31KBRHL1IB27V92B8QVVV4KQNSO5AEMVJF66Q9ASUAAJG
	integration_test.go:732: Deleting test s3 bucket terragrunt-test-bucket-mkrp5i
	integration_test.go:736: Failed to list object versions in s3 bucket terragrunt-test-bucket-mkrp5i: MissingEndpoint: 'Endpoint' configuration is required for this service
```

Any idea what is the cause? Is the default endpoint resolver not working for some reason?
***

**MRinalducci** commented *Feb 27, 2018*

I didn't saw those errors before, sorry for that.
Let me have a look!
***

**MRinalducci** commented *Feb 27, 2018*

Ok I found the problem, I ommited a test if the endpoint was not specified.
I commit the changes to the same branch.
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 27, 2018*

Thx! Since the branch is already merged, could you put the changes in a new branch & new PR?
***

**MRinalducci** commented *Feb 27, 2018*

Commit done, I make a new PR!
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 27, 2018*

Yes please
***

