# Terragrunt hooks

**eak12913** commented *Mar 19, 2018*

This is my stab at implementing [#377](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/377)

Notes:
- `run_on_error`: allows users to control whether this hook should run if a previous error occurred (from a previous hook or from terraform execution)
- `run_on_error`: if you don't specify it, `false` is the default

Before hook syntax:
```    
   before_hook "copy-file-before2" {
      commands = ["apply", "plan"]
      execute = ["echo", "Hello World"]
      run_on_error = true
    }
```

After hook syntax:
```
    after_hook "after-copy-file" {
      commands = ["apply", "plan"]
      execute = ["echo", "After Hook Running"]
      run_on_error = true
    }
```

<br />
***


**eak12913** commented *Mar 23, 2018*

Yikes! You’re right! I’ll try to get that done today or tomorrow. 

> On Ma 22, 2018, at 5:40 PM, Yevgeniy Brikman <notifications@github.com> wrote:
> 
> @brikis98 commented on this pull request.
> 
> This is fantastic. Thank you so much!
> 
> However, I just realized one final (no really!) thing that's missing: update the docs! Otherwise, no one will know this feature exists :)
> 
> —
> You are receiving this because you authored the thread.
> Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub, or mute the thread.
> 

***

**brikis98** commented *Mar 27, 2018*

I'll wait for the tests to run, and if they pass, issue a new release.
***

**brikis98** commented *Mar 27, 2018*

Fixed some nil pointer dereferences in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/448.
***

**brikis98** commented *Mar 27, 2018*

New release is here (binaries should show up shortly)!

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.14.4

Thanks @eak12913! 
***

**ebarault** commented *Mar 27, 2018*

**Excellent**, a very big thank you for bringing this to terragrunt @eak12913 ! 🎉 
***

**eak12913** commented *Mar 27, 2018*

No problem :-) Happy to help!

On Tue, Mar 27, 2018 at 10:45 AM, Eric Barault <notifications@github.com>
wrote:

> Excellent, a very big thank you for bringing this to terragrunt @eak12913
> <https://github.com/eak12913>
>
> —
> You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
> Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
> <https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/439#issuecomment-376552205>,
> or mute the thread
> <https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AgwhE_KHzwGNFsMKc0niXId7VjpHFhPZks5tilCOgaJpZM4Svdb0>
> .
>

***

**ebarault** commented *Mar 28, 2018*

@eak12913 : i tried playing a bit with new hooks and i realized hooks are running inside terragrunt's tmp dir, which means after the terragrunt has created it and moved the files there.

```
[terragrunt] 2018/03/28 16:51:48 Detected 1 Hooks
[terragrunt] 2018/03/28 16:51:48 Executing hook: compute component.tfvars
[terragrunt] 2018/03/28 16:51:48 Running command: pwd 
/Users/ebarault/.terragrunt/ZjqqRQuRq2pdCMh0Hi_tpQ-ukQc/UVUxJQl7b4LfD1lr_uBnKFydomI/path/to/dir
```

in my case, i'd also need hooks that would happen before in the terragrunt source code dir.

what do you think would be the simpler to implement, add an option to the `before_hook` block? or create another type of hook? such as `initial_hook`?
***

**eak12913** commented *Mar 29, 2018*

@ebarault: I discussed this with @brikis98 and he proposed an interesting idea:  What if we provided a `working_dir` parameter for the hook? This would default to terragrunt's working dir, but could be overridden to anything you need.  Could this work for you?
***

**ebarault** commented *Mar 29, 2018*

By "terragrunt's working dir", do you mean the location where the original `terraform.tfvars` sits or the tmp dir where it is copied to?

See https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/453, i have also a temporality issue with when the hooks happen: thanks to terragrunt's interpolation functions i managed running the hooks in the source code dir, but then the problem is that they happen after terragrunt's parsing of `required_var_files` / `optional_var_files`.

So if the file (which i want to generate with hooks) is missing at terragrunt's execution, even though it's generated just after, it will be skipped by terragrunt.
```
[terragrunt] 2018/03/28 19:53:13 Skipping var-file /path/to/component.tfvars as it does not exist
```

I ended up generating the file directly in the tmp dir as suggested by @lorengordon using the `.auto.tfvars` extension so it gets automatically parsed by terraform.

Not an ideal solution if you ask me as it makes the workflow difficult to understand, and we have to care about the tmp folder which should remain out of end user's concern.

A more natural solution would have the before hooks doing any required action actually before any other terragrunt step, then the regular terragrunt workflow takes place.
***

