# Removes Terragrunt's requirement for "//" in all module sources when using --terragrunt-source

**geekifier** commented *Apr 27, 2018*

## Overview

Removes Terragrunt's requirement for "//" in all module sources when using `--terragrunt-source` in order to follow the [terraform spec](https://www.terraform.io/docs/modules/sources.html).

This is accomplished by utilizing Hashicorp's go-getter to parse the module URLs.

The regex was updated to also parse out the module name from each URL if the module lives at the root of a repo.

Test cases were updated to account for HTTP paths, forward slashes in ?ref=, as well as local file sources. 

## Regex update

The regex will only run _if_ go-getter fails to obtain a subdir for a parsed module source (e.g. the module source does not contain `//`. Terraform normally does not care about this, but Terragrunt needs a valid name to use in the local module path later.

`(?:.+/)(.+?)(?:\?.+|\.)|(?:.+/)(.+)`

The regex basically matches everything after the last slash in the URL, but before a valid termination, such as end-of-line, `?`, or `.`.
The second capture group (and the conditional) are needed, because it is possible to include slashes in an otherwise valid source string via the ` ?ref=` parameter, e.g. `?ref=feature/some_branch`.

# Tests
## Test updates

The error check for a missing "//" was removed, as there are too many edge cases based on a large amount of source formats supported by Terraform. Terraform itself does not perform this validation on module download. It's possible that there is a place for an error suggesting potential missing `//` somewhere else in the code (e.g. when Terragrunt does not find the expected modules under a path).

The testing edge cases involved paths such as `github.com/hashicorp/modules/subdir/module` or `github.com/org/some_module?ref=feature/some_feature`.

While it is possible for Terragrunt to utilize an expanded set of URL validation functions (likely one for each type of supported module source), I thought this was going out of scope of this bugfix PR.

## Test results

All tests passed, with the exception of `TestRunShellCommand`. However, that test also fails without my changes, on the vanilla `master` branch. I think it's because I have `tfenv` installed.

```
$ go test -parallel 128 $(glide novendor)
?   	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/options	[no test files]
ok  	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/test	155.016s
?   	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/test/helpers	[no test files]
ok  	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/util	(cached)
ok  	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/config	(cached)
[terragrunt] 2018/04/27 13:16:40 Running command: terraform --version
usage: dirname path
/usr/local/bin/terraform: line 6: /tfenv: No such file or directory
[terragrunt] 2018/04/27 13:16:40 Running command: terraform not-a-real-command
usage: dirname path
/usr/local/bin/terraform: line 6: /tfenv: No such file or directory
--- FAIL: TestRunShellCommand (0.03s)
        Error Trace:    run_shell_cmd_test.go:17
	Error:      	Expected nil, but got: &errors.Error{Err:(*exec.ExitError)(0xc420150600), stack:[]uintptr{0x124e4f1, 0x124ede3, 0x10cf440, 0x105a8d1}, frames:[]errors.StackFrame(nil), prefix:""}
FAIL
FAIL	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/shell	6.551s
ok  	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/dynamodb	(cached)
ok  	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/configstack	(cached)
ok  	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/cli	(cached)
?   	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/aws_helper	[no test files]
?   	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/errors	[no test files]
ok  	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/remote	(cached)
?   	github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt	[no test files]
```

## Issues Fixed

Fixes #445. 
<br />
***


**geekifier** commented *May 1, 2018*

I've mode some changes based on your suggestions. The only part I was unsure about was the error handling - I ended up creating a new error type `ErrorParsingModulePath` for the new method.

The regex is much simpler now, since we don't have to deal with query string craziness.

Users are still responsible for validating that either:

a) the URL provided is the "root" path of a module (e.g. what terragrunt will expect to see in `terragruntOptions.Source`).
b) The URL contains a `//` to separate the module directory from the rest of its path.
***

**geekifier** commented *May 1, 2018*

My apologies, I noticed some failed tests, and have reverted the latest commit. I am double checking what happened.
***

**geekifier** commented *May 1, 2018*

Sorry about that - I was bitten by scoped variables and trying to reduce the amount of `return` statements :). Should be good to go.
***

**brikis98** commented *May 2, 2018*

Merging now. If build passes, I'll create a new release, and paste the link here.
***

**brikis98** commented *May 2, 2018*

New binaries should be here shortly: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.14.9
***

