# Allow s3 remote state key to be configured in child

**Sprinkle** commented *Apr 30, 2018*

Allows S3 remote state key to be part of the actual terraform module rather than specified in the terraform.tfvars.

To make it easier to use terraform_remote_state with nested module 
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *May 1, 2018*

Not sure I follow. Could you explain your use case a bit more and provide some examples?
***

**Sprinkle** commented *May 1, 2018*

Its a little bit like #344, say I have modules structure like below.

```
├── backend-app
│   └── main.tf
├── frontend-app
│   └── main.tf
├── mysql
│   └── main.tf
└── vpc
    └── main.tf
```

In each main.tf I would have a partial s3 state configured.

```hcl
terraform {
  # The configuration for this backend will be mostly filled in by Terragrunt
  backend "s3" {
    key = "module_name/something.tfstate"
  }
}
```

So if I have to move or restructure module folders, and because I use terraform_remote_state in other modules to reference various state files, this would allow flexibility to have state files follow a different structure.
***

**brikis98** commented *May 2, 2018*

> So if I have to move or restructure module folders, and because I use terraform_remote_state in other modules to reference various state files, this would allow flexibility to have state files follow a different structure.

There are downsides to hard-coding the `key` this way:

1. You may accidentally use the same key in multiple modules (which is *very* likely, as you often copy/paste an old module to create a new one), overwriting the state of one module with another. This will lead to very confusing errors.

1. When browsing state in S3 (or wherever you store it), the mapping from the state back to the module that created it will be totally unclear. Letting Terragrunt resolve it automatically ensures a 1:1 mapping between code and state.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 7, 2020*

PR not updated for over a year, closing
***

