# WIP: Allow tagging of s3 bucket and dynamo db

**BernhardBln** commented *Jun 13, 2018*

This is WIP - no tests were created for this yet, but the tagging itself works already.

Please give some feedback if that looks ok, then I will start adding some tests too.

And remember I'm totally new to go...

**Note**: I decided against putting the tags outside of config, but inside of remote_state, for two reasons:

1. (Minor) - I was not able to get access to the whole remote_state object in the remote_state_s3 file
2. (Major) - I think it does not make sense to have an option which is s3-specific top-level in remote_state - if you ever add another provider, you would have to explain that these two config items can be set only if the backend is s3, which I find worse than putting it inside of config and filtering out later (which I do in two places, when reading the config in remote_state_s3, and when iterating over the config items to prepare the command line options for terraform)

If you still think I should place them outside of remote_state, I will change that, but I find the second argument quite strong.

So configuration looks like this now:

```
terragrunt = {

  remote_state {
    backend = "s3"
    config {
      bucket = "..."
      [...]

      s3_bucket_tags {
        owner = "team name"
        name = "Terraform state storage"
      }

      dynamotable_tags {
        owner = "team name"
        name = "Terraform lock table"
      }

    }
  }
}
```

You can set arbitrary tags (just follow the limitations of AWS, I do not check e.g. if a tag value is too long etc.

In case the tag mappings are missing, nothing is tagged (when they are there but are empty, an empty tagging is made, which could be prevented if you think that's necessary). 

In case they appear multiple times (like, if s3_bucket_tags appears twice or more), an error is printed and we stop.

<br />
***


**BernhardBln** commented *Jun 14, 2018*

Done fixing remarks from review; will now start to write some tests.
***

**BernhardBln** commented *Jun 14, 2018*

Done with tests. Hope they are sufficient so far.

Please check again, @brikis98 - especially my solution with the `RemoteStateInitializer`, in order to move the filtering by s3-backend-specific keys from `remote_state` to `remote_state_s3`.
***

**BernhardBln** commented *Jun 14, 2018*

@brikis98 - fixed everything and added a new test for the case that there is no backend available to return the config.

For some reason, I cannot reply to your comment about "Could you make S3BucketTags a map rather than a list of maps?", there is no "Reply" field. 

Is there a way to I can get this as a map, rather than slice of map?

No matter if I use

```
s3_bucket_tags = {
    service = "Terraform"
}
```

or

```
s3_bucket_tags {
    service = "Terraform"
}
```

I get them as slice of map: `'s3_bucket_tags' expected a map, got 'slice'`

***

**BernhardBln** commented *Jun 15, 2018*

I extended the integration test (see my other comment), renamed the config key `dynamotable_tags` to `dynamodb_table_tags` for the sake of consistency, and also added the two new config keys to the README.

Let me know if there is anything we can do about this map/slice of map problem, otherwise I think we should be pretty much done soon :) 
***

**BernhardBln** commented *Jun 15, 2018*

Sweet, thanks a lot, also for the patience :) 
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 16, 2018*

Whoops, almost forgot to create the new release! Here it is (new binaries should show up in a few min): https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.14.11
***

**BernhardBln** commented *Jun 17, 2018*

Thank you :) 
***

