# Revert init changes

**brikis98** commented *Jul 14, 2018*

Terragrunt calls `terraform init` twice:

1. Once with the `-from-module` parameter to download any remote Terraform configurations specified via the `source` parameter in the Terragrunt config.

1. Once to for the normal purpose of `init`, which is to configure the backend, download providers, download modules, etc.

In #516, I tried to change the first call to `init` so it did not duplicate what the second call did by adding `-get=false`, `-backend=false`, and `-providers=false`. The goal was to speed up local iteration. Unfortunately, this change exposed some strange behavior with `terraform init`:

1. If you set it to a parent folder in a repo—that is, a folder that doesn't contain an `*.tf` files itself, but has subfolders that contain Terraform modules—the `init` command would download the code you requested and do nothing else.
2. If you set the `-from-module` parameter directly to an individual module—that is, a folder with `*.tf` files within it—then Terraform would not only download the code, but also do some sort of validation. This validation would fail with the error `module xxx: not found, may need to run 'terraform init'` if you had run `init` with the `-get=false` parameter. I've filed https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/18460 about this issue. 

In #516, I tried to work around (2) by messing with the way Terragrunt downloads code, but as a result, I caused #522. The way I was hacking paths does not work for download modules in the root of a repo. 

This PR fixes #522 by rolling back my path hackery, but also means we'll be calling `init` twice with everything enabled, making every Terragrunt command slower. If https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/18460 is fixed, I can re-add `-get=false`, `-backend=false`, etc without the path hackery. 
<br />
***


