# Auto-Retry

**autero1** commented *Oct 3, 2018*

Auto-Retry will automatically address situations where a terraform command needs to be re-run.
<br />
***


**autero1** commented *Oct 5, 2018*

All the tests pass.

***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 6, 2018*

Hm, tests failed in CI. I'll dig into it tomorrow.
***

**autero1** commented *Oct 6, 2018*

I ran the tests on master again and noticed the following: 
- There was one more of these transient errors that I kept getting: `"Error installing provider "null": Get https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform-provider-null/: dial tcp: i/o timeout."` This wasn't caught by the list of regexps - should probably add `"(?s).*Error installing provider.*tcp.*timeout.*",`
- The auto-retry integration tests intermittently fail with `-parallel 128`. Reducing that (tried with 4) made them pass. Don't quite know yet why this is. I'll keep looking into this.


***

**autero1** commented *Oct 6, 2018*

Update on the failing tests. When I removed `t.Parallel()` from the AutoRetry tests, everything started working fine, even with `-parallel 128`. This must be due to how the parallel execution deals with the shared stdout and stderr that get passed to each `runTerragruntCommand` execution. Reason I didn't spot this earlier was that I was mainly running the tests from within GoLand IDE. While it uses parallel execution, the order is probably different, so we don't hit these conditions.

Other tests that seem to be failing (this is fairly random), are `TestTerragruntStdOut` and `TestLocalWithMissingBackend` + `TestLocalWithBackend`. While the first one might very well be connected due to relying on stdout, the two latter ones usually fail with creating the dynamodb lock table. Just out of curiosity I commented out `t.Parallel()` and they haven't failed since. 
***

**autero1** commented *Oct 7, 2018*

Parallel execution coupled with using environment variables like this caused the issue: 
```
func TestAutoRetryEnvVarWithRecoverableError(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel() 
	os.Setenv("TERRAGRUNT_AUTO_RETRY", "false")
	defer os.Unsetenv("TERRAGRUNT_AUTO_RETRY")
```
The env var value set here was visible for of all other tests executing in parallel. That caused the failure in the other auto-retry tests. Removing the parallel fixed the issue.
***

