# Improve test stability

**autero1** commented *Jan 23, 2019*

This PR tries to address intermittent test failures with terragrunt.  
<br />
***


**autero1** commented *Jan 23, 2019*

Tests that have had most failures recently are these:
`TestResolveTerraformModulesTwoModulesWithDependenciesIncludedDirsWithDependencyExcludeModuleWithNoDependency`
`TestResolveTerraformModulesTwoModulesWithDependenciesIncludedDirsWithDependency`
The tests themselves and the functionality they test look perfectly ok. Executing separately from within my IDE, the tests never fail. But increasing parallelism looks to increase the error rate. 

These tests (together with all other tests in the same directory) use the same fixture and have heavy recursive dependencies and rarely seem to fail with no parallelism. For that and "SoC" reasons I decided to split the `unit tests` and `integration tests` into separate stages with no parallelization in unit testing and default parallelization (128) in integration testing. At least the initial run was successful. And I didn't have to change or disable any tests 😄. 

Does this make sense?

***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jan 23, 2019*

Approach makes sense to me. Don't forget to also add comments into the circleci config to describe why the unit tests are run with no parallelism (and why it is run separately).
***

**autero1** commented *Jan 23, 2019*

Fixed. And after the commit second round of successful tests.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jan 24, 2019*

@autero1 Unfortunately looks like the nightly build for tonight failed :(

https://circleci.com/gh/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/1146?utm_campaign=workflow-failed&utm_medium=email&utm_source=notification
***

