# Fix nil pointer. Wait for encryption. Make DynamoDB encryption off by default.

**brikis98** commented *Feb 11, 2019*

Follow-up fixes for #647:

1. Fix a nil pointer dereference when looking up tables that don't have encryption enabled.
1. It turns out that it takes 1-2 minutes to actually enable encryption, so add a wait. Otherwise, we start using the table before it's ready.
1. Disable DynamoDB encryption by default as (a) Terraform doesn't store any sensitive data in DynamoDB and (b) it takes 1-2 minutes to enable it, which makes using Terragrunt a lot slower. It can be enabled on-demand using the `enable_lock_table_ssencryption` setting.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Feb 11, 2019*

@Xtigyro I got a number of test failures and have created this PR to fix them. Are you by any chance _just_ running the tests in the `config` or `dynamodb` folder or something that you're not seeing these?
***

**Xtigyro** commented *Feb 11, 2019*

> 
> 
> @Xtigyro I got a number of test failures and have created this PR to fix them. Are you by any chance _just_ running the tests in the `config` or `dynamodb` folder or something that you're not seeing these?

@brikis98 I run the tests in the `remote` directory. The output and what was run can be checked in the other PR. I'll try again in the evening. Can I assist with anything?
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 11, 2019*

> I run the tests in the `remote` directory. The output and what was run can be checked in the other PR.

Ah, I didn't notice that. Yea, there are tests in most of the packages, not just `remote`, and `test` in particular has integration tests that were failing. Please make sure to run all tests in the future!

I've got all the tests passing now, but it looks like enabling encryption for DynamoDB takes 1-2 minutes. That's a lot of overhead for the first call to `init` and for the tests... It makes sense to encrypt the S3 bucket by default, as Terraform state can contain secrets. But DynamoDB only contains some hashes and lock info, so encrypting it seems much less important. Given the overhead, I think I'm going to disable encryption for the lock table by default, but make it possible to encrypt via config.
***

**Xtigyro** commented *Feb 11, 2019*

> 
> 
> > I run the tests in the `remote` directory. The output and what was run can be checked in the other PR.
> 
> Ah, I didn't notice that. Yea, there are tests in most of the packages, not just `remote`, and `test` in particular has integration tests that were failing. Please make sure to run all tests in the future!
> 
> I've got all the tests passing now, but it looks like enabling encryption for DynamoDB takes 1-2 minutes. That's a lot of overhead for the first call to `init` and for the tests... It makes sense to encrypt the S3 bucket by default, as Terraform state can contain secrets. But DynamoDB only contains some hashes and lock info, so encrypting it seems much less important. Given the overhead, I think I'm going to disable encryption for the lock table by default, but make it possible to encrypt via config.

@brikis98 **(1)** OK - will surely do! **(2)** Yes - I completely agree: whoever can accept the longer initialisation time, should pass that as an argument. Thank you very much!
***

**brikis98** commented *Feb 11, 2019*

OK, new release is here: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.18.0
***

