# A helper function to run arbitrary commands

**bernardoVale** commented *Mar 3, 2019*

In my use case, we'll have multiple `live-infrastructure` repos. One particular drawback of such implementation is that you can end up with a lack of pattern.

To cope with that, I wanted to implement generic `terraform.tfvars` that can be easily copy-pasted, everywhere and upgraded to a new version when needed. Since there's information that changes from account to account and repo per repo, like the bucket name and the dynamoDB table I plan to write a script that determines such information based on the path and the repo name.

This PR provides this functionality with a simple helper function that runs any command with a list of arguments and returns the stdout as the result.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Mar 8, 2019*

Hm, got a test failure:

```
--- FAIL: TestCommandOutputOrder (0.00s)
	Error Trace:	run_shell_cmd_output_test.go:31
	Error:      	Expected value not to be nil.
	Messages:   	Should get output
```

Any idea what that is?
***

**bernardoVale** commented *Mar 8, 2019*

weird this test is passing here.
***

**bernardoVale** commented *Mar 8, 2019*

@brikis98 found the error. I forgot to add the emtpy`workingDir` param in one of the tests. The binary wasn't breaking since the last argument accepts a list or arguments :P
***

**bernardoVale** commented *Mar 8, 2019*

check https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/673
***

**ansgarm** commented *Mar 14, 2019*

Is anything blocking a release? I could really make use of this new feature 👍
***

**brikis98** commented *Mar 16, 2019*

This is now released in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.18.2! Thx @bernardoVale!
***

