# Adds Appveyor support for testing on Windows

**jakauppila** commented *Mar 15, 2019*

Added preliminary support for running tests on Windows via Appveyor.

**Configuring Appveyor**
With this configuration, you'll want to enable the project in your Appveyor account and set the following environment variables for running the integration tests:

- `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
- `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`

**Example execution:**
https://ci.appveyor.com/project/Jakauppila/terragrunt/builds/23092218

Of interest is the Tests tab and Artifacts where you can download the output of the tests and results of the log parser.

**Notables:**
- Largely it looks pretty good, only 7 test failures coming through
- With `gruntwork-install` being bash, I decided just to pull `terratest_log_parser` directly from the project releases
- Definitely ran into the `Filename too long` issue reported in #581 
  - Due to this, I did set the `GRUNTWORK_DOWNLOAD` environment variable for now, though there are still occurrences of it
- I see there are a handful of bash scripts in the tests which are failing
- I didn't configure any of the branch restrictions or cron execution settings

Fixes #97 
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Mar 18, 2019*

Wow, this is fantastic, thank you! ❤️ 

Our resident Windows expert, @tonerdo, is out this week. I've asked him to review this when he's back.  We'll need to configure our Appveyor account, figure out workarounds for the few bash scripts that are failing, and then get this merged in. Very exciting to see this! 👍 
***

**tonerdo** commented *Mar 25, 2019*

@brikis98 I've setup this project in Appveyor, will merge this now to test and I'll take it from there. Thank you @jakauppila 
***

