# WIP: Changing runtime environment and late interpolations

**tmeckel** commented *Mar 16, 2019*

## Description

This Pull Request contains functionality to dynamically load and change the runtime environment of Terragrunt and it adds late binding of interpolations.

## Motivation

Terragrunt interpolates the defined variables and function on startup when the configuration files are loaded. (https://github.com/tmeckel/terragrunt/blob/bf8f423f569227e339ddbe3370c227b7610850c7/config/config.go#L284) Later on it's no more possible to change the used runtime environment or reevaluate an interpolation with a changed environment. Thus to supply Terragrunt with an environment that contains dynamic login information for example with values from an Azure Keyvault it's required to initialize the runtime environment (variables) before Terragrunt is started and does the interpolation while loading the config files. Not only this might lead to a matryoshka phenomenon in which a script calls a script calls a script calls Terragrunt but it's also error prone because if the script chain isn't run but only Terragrunt this will lead to errors because the environment isn't initialized properly. Following the DRY principle it should be possible to initialize or change the runtime environment only using Terragrunt.

## New and changed functions

As described it's now possible to change the runtime environment with the new statement `load_env_vars` inside a hook definition. @tiwood described how we're are using this functionality in a customer project in his comment to issue #668 (https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/668#issuecomment-472038719). The load `load_env_vars` statement supports the definition of a command to execute (the syntax has been adopted from the the definition of command inside a hook) and two flags `overwrite` and `transient` which control the behavior how environment variables are set and the persistency of changes to the runtime environment. 

The `load_env_vars` statement can be defined in every hook definition and the command inside will always be executed before the hook command is run. The following example shows how to load secrets into the runtime environment by using a before hook definition for a set of states.

```hcl
before_hook "get_secrets" {
      commands = [
        "init",
        "apply",
        "plan",
        "destroy",
        "import",
        "push",
        "refresh",
        "validate",
      ]

      load_env_vars {
        execute = [
          "pwsh",
          "-nop",
          "-nol",
          "-File",
          "${get_parent_tfvars_dir()}/Scripts/Get-Secrets.ps1",
        ]
      }

      run_on_error = false
    }
```

Because the flags `overwrite` and `transient` aren't specified the changes to the environment will be permanent (`transient == false`) and existing environment variables won't be replaced because `overwrite == false`. With `overwrite == false` existing variables will be changed and new variables will be added. With `overwrite == true` the complete runtime environment will be changed and will only contain those variables returned by the command executed. The `transient` flags allows to setup a temporary runtime environment for a hook command when it's set to `true` because after the hook command has been run the changes to the runtime environment will be reverted.

The following table shows the effects on the environment with all combinations of those two flags.

| Flags                          | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| transient=false, overwrite=false | Changes to the environment are persitent and will be available to all hook functions executed after the current one. The runtime environment will contain all values returned from the command executed in `load_env_vars` and all environment variables which already existed.     |
| transient=true, overwrite=false  | Changes to the environment are not persitent and will not be available to hook functions executed after the current one. The runtime environment will contain all values returned from the command executed in `load_env_vars` and all environment variables which already existed. |
| transient=false, overwrite=true  | Changes to the environment are persitent and will be available to all hook functions executed after the current one. The runtime environment will be replaced and thus will only contain those variables and values returned from the command executed in `load_env_vars`.          |
| transient=true, overwrite=true   | Changes to the environment are not persitent and will not be available to hook functions executed after the current one. The runtime environment will be replaced and thus will only contain those variables and values returned from the command executed in `load_env_vars`.      |

Aside the new ability to change the runtime environment Terragrunt will now perform interpolations every time a hook command is executed and not only when the configuration is loaded (https://github.com/tmeckel/terragrunt/blob/own-load-env/shell/run_shell_cmd.go#L49). 

## Implementation remarks

The Pull Request is marked as WIP because the unit and integration tests haven't been changed yet according to the new late binding of interpolations and the ability to change the runtime environment as described above. Further more while implementing the new functions it was required to move code files to other or new packages because GO detected a loop in the import statements. Those changes should be reviewed and changed again if required. At least the if statement at https://github.com/tmeckel/terragrunt/blob/own-load-env/shell/run_shell_cmd.go#L75 should be reviewed again now that Terragrunt is doing late interpolations because the if-statement add parameters to Terraform depending on current parameter (argument) values.

<br />
***


**tmeckel** commented *Mar 23, 2019*

> Thanks for the PR! Some thoughts:
> 
> 1. Instead of a `load_env_vars` block, perhaps a `parse_env_vars_from_stdout` boolean param would be cleaner? That way, hooks always have the same consistent syntax:
>    ```terraform
>    before_hook "before_hook_1" {
>      commands = ["apply", "plan"]
>      execute = ["echo", "Foo"]
>      run_on_error = true
>      parse_env_vars_from_stdout = true
>    }
>    ```
The load_env_vars construct can be used to setup an runtime einvironment for an command that is executed in a hook. With the two flags `transient` and `overwrite` this gives you the possibility to setup a special environment just for a hook function which is executed via the `execute` definition. Perhaps you got a bit mislead by the comment @tiwood added here https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/668#issuecomment-472038719. In that particular case it would be perfectly sufficient to have that proposed flag `parse_env_vars_from_stdout` in place. But this is only one use case.

> 2. What was it that created the dependency cycle? I'd like to reduce the amount of file shuffling in this PR if possible.

Sorry but I think I dont't understand your question. 

> 3. How did you test these changes?

We're using the changed version of terragrunt to deploy cloud ressources at an investment bank. The changed version works flawlessly for us up to now. Perhaps @tiwood can add some more information on this.

***

**tmeckel** commented *Mar 30, 2019*

@brikis98 I pushed a new version with the restructed parsing code for the incoming environment variables
***

**tmeckel** commented *Jun 21, 2019*

Hi @brikis98 ... Sorry I've to close this PR because currently I personally have no time to work on this PR anymore and we found a way to utilize a plain version of terragrunt in our project.
***

