# automatically chomp newlines when using run_cmd

**twang817** commented *Jun 5, 2019*

It appears that the primary use-case for run_cmd is in file handling.  Most examples I've seen require you to use `echo -n` to make sure newlines are not picked up by terragrunt.

This simply makes Terragrunt chomp any trailing newlines found in the output.

The syntax of run_cmd is already strained at best -- often trying to figure out how to squeeze the `echo -n` is difficult.  You could always factor it out into a script, but having a bunch of loose scripts in the repository -- is less than desirable.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Jun 6, 2019*

Thanks for the PR! Code changes look good, but we have to get #466 fixed before merging anything else in, so I'll have to come back to this one. Please rebase on master after #466 is resolved and give us a ping again!
***

**tiwood** commented *Jun 18, 2019*

Hi @twang817, @brikis98,
now that #466 is closed, can we revisit this PR? We have many complex run_cmd lines with newline issues and this change would make it much easier for us.
***

**brikis98** commented *Nov 20, 2020*

I'm not sure if @twang817 is working on this any more, but @tiwood if you want to open up a new PR with these changes, I'd be happy to get it reviewed!
***

**twang817** commented *Nov 20, 2020*

Sorry, didn't see a conflict when I saw this notification come through yesterday.  Updated.
***

**brikis98** commented *Nov 23, 2020*

Looks like the `go fmt` precommit hook failed. Could you run `go fmt`?
***

**kchristensen** commented *Feb 2, 2021*

Any chance of movement on this?
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 18, 2021*

Merged and released as https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.28.7
***

