# Terraform 0.12 support

**brikis98** commented *Jun 6, 2019*

This PR upgrades Terragrunt to work with Terraform 0.12. Key changes:

1. We are migrating from having the Terragrunt configuration in `terraform.tfvars` to `terragrunt.hcl`. This is necessary because Terraform 0.12 is more strict about what can be in `terraform.tfvars` files, and the `terragrunt = { ... }` configuration block we used to work is no longer allowed.

1. The configuration in `terragrunt.hcl` is largely the same as what we used to have in `terraform.tfvars`, except (a) we no longer need the `terragrunt = { ... }` wrapper, (b) we now use HCL2 syntax, (c) any input variables that need to be passed to the Terraform module need to be moved into an `inputs = { ... }` block.

1. HCL2 brings two major benefits: (a) first-class expressions, so not everything has to be wrapped in `${...}` and (b) a better parser, so we can now use Terragrunt's built-in functions _anywhere_ in `terragrunt.hcl`.

PR progress:

- [x] Update code
- [x] Update tests
- [x] Update docs
- [x] Add migration guide
- [x] Detect old Terraform version and show error
 
Note, this PR looks huge, but the vast majority of it is renaming all the `terraform.tfvars` files to `terragrunt.hcl` and updating to 0.12 syntax with first-class expressions.

Fixes #466.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Jun 7, 2019*

> I think the only thing I might add is an integration test that verifies you can use functions in the inputs expression, and that that works correctly to pass through to the TF_VAR. I know in theory that is a tautology, but would be nice to have that extra verification.

Added: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/731/commits/dc5f0aa31d89211c3a6879e22eff551b732457e9
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 7, 2019*

Doh. Tests are failing due to what I _think_ is a bug in Terraform 0.12: https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/21653. This may be a blocker...
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 8, 2019*

Just added a bunch of fixes:

1. Switch to using `go-getter` directly instead of `terraform init -from-module`. The latter seems to be poorly maintained, as it had some unfortunate bugs in 0.11 (https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/18460) and now in 0.12, it flat out crashes/panics. 

1. Since I'm no longer running `terraform init` twice, I had to backport the hooks functionality so you could still execute hooks before/after the usage of `go-getter`.

1. Terraform 0.12 stores state differently in `.tfstate` files (all possible keys are now stored, unset ones defaulting to `null`), so I had to fix the state equality check too.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 8, 2019*

Oh, one more fix:

Looks like with the `--terragrunt-non-interactive`, we were assuming "yes" for all prompts, including the question you get for `xxx-all` commands of whether the `xxx` command should be applied to "external dependencies" (those outside the working directory). So if you ran `destroy-all` in folder `foo`, it not only destroyed everything in folder `foo`, but also all external dependencies of anything in `foo`. That is not a safe default, so I have reversed that behavior. It was exposed by a test failure that, I guess, 0.11 was somehow covering up?
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 9, 2019*

Alright, this PR is driving me bonkers with an endless yak shave. First the bugs with `terraform init -from-module`, which I worked around by moving to `go-getter`; then bugs with copying folder contents and concurrency; I worked around those, and now `TestTerragruntStackCommands` is failing with the error:

```
NoSuchBucket: The specified bucket does not exist
```

Digging into it, I think this is happening in the part of the code that [automatically creates the S3 bucket](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/tf12/remote/remote_state_s3.go#L206-L220). What's bewildering is that, as far as I can tell from the logs, the [WaitUntilS3BucketExists](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/tf12/remote/remote_state_s3.go#L410) is returning successfully, which means the S3 `HeadBucket` operation is saying that the bucket _does_ exist. However, when the code moves on to [enable versioning on the bucket](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/tf12/remote/remote_state_s3.go#L447), I get back the error the bucket doesn't exist. I even added a 5 second sleep between creation and enabling versioning, in case it was an eventual consistency issue, and it didn't help. WTF? 😕  
***

**lorengordon** commented *Jun 10, 2019*

Any chance it might be a credential issue? Maybe temporary keys expiring at an inopportune moment? Or perhaps credential in combination with region, where the bucket is created in one region but then the versioning logic is somehow referencing another region? 
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 10, 2019*

> Any chance it might be a credential issue? Maybe temporary keys expiring at an inopportune moment? Or perhaps credential in combination with region, where the bucket is created in one region but then the versioning logic is somehow referencing another region?

No, I don't think it's a credentials issue, as there are a bunch of tests running in parallel, all with the same credentials, and while all the tests before/during/after `TestTerragruntStackCommands` pass, this one test fails consistently.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 10, 2019*

And of course `TestTerragruntStackCommands` passes without issues on my own computer... It only fails in CI...
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 10, 2019*

OK, I've put in a workaround that does the S3 bucket creation/configuration in a retry loop with some sleep between retries. Tests seem to be passing consistently now. Finally merging this!
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 10, 2019*

This code is now available in: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.19.0
***

**barryib** commented *Jun 11, 2019*

@brikis98 awesome. Thanks for your great work. I tried this release, but I was wondering how do we have to handle var files (required and optional) in Terragrunt, because Terraform is now rising and deprecation warning for unknown variables. I opened the following issue https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/737 to track this 
***

