# Feature/tfbinary in config

**ekini** commented *Jun 17, 2019*

This change allows setting `terraform_binary` in `terragrunt.hcl` (a module-level one or in an included `terragrunt.hcl`.

Adds thisto the migration doc, allowing using a mix of terraform-0.11 and terraform-0.12 modules together, for example set `terraform_binary=~/bin/terraform-v11/terraform` in an included root `terragrunt.hcl` and allows to override it in specific modules.

Lowers the required terraform version to 0.11 to make it work with the previous version of terraform.

A note: checking for terraform version doesn't really make sense in this case, as it checks for only the default version of it. Maybe increase the minimum version to `0.12` again? But it will make it unclear that different terraform is checked for before running modules runs.

Makes supporting terragrunt `0.18` irrelevant as well, as per #743.

<br />
***


**ekini** commented *Jun 18, 2019*

First of all, thanks for the feedback!

> I appreciate the PR and the desire to make migration easier, but I'm uncomfortable claiming to support older versions of Terraform with zero testing of those versions. It's fine to put disclaimers in a README, but let's be honest, no one will read those, and the result will be lots of angry bugs filed and time pulled away from making Terragrunt better to fixing bugs with old versions.

On the other hand, if terragrunt is positioned as a thin wrapper for terraform, then why does it require a specific version of it? :)

> BTW, the most likely place this will break is how variables are passed to Terraform. In previous versions, we used `.tfvars` files, so it worked automatically. Now we're passing variables via env vars, and I'm not sure TF 0.12 parses those the same way as TF 0.11. And with no testing, it just feels like taking on a bunch of tech debt...

I've tested it on almost all modules we have, and it breaks only in one place: boolean variables used as count. It happens because of [special handling](https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration-0-11/variables.html) of `tfvars` files:

> Variables with boolean values in a tfvars file will likewise be converted to "0" and "1" values.
> Variables specified via the -var command line flag will be literal strings "true" and "false", so care should be taken to explicitly use "0" or "1".
> Variables specified with the TF_VAR_ environment variables will be literal string values, just like -var.


However, If https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/752 is accepted, then this issue will be resolved (`.tfvars.json` are handled the same way as `.tfvars` even it's not mentioned in the doc).
***

**brikis98** commented *Jun 19, 2019*

> On the other hand, if terragrunt is positioned as a thin wrapper for terraform, then why does it require a specific version of it?

Because Terraform is pre 1.0.0, so it offers no backwards compatibility guarantees on its public APIs, so to wrap it, we have to know what APIs we are wrapping. E.g., In the past, the format of the `terraform init` command changed in backwards incompatible ways; now, Terraform processes `terraform.tfvars` files differently, so we had to move away from the old file format; and both in the past and the present, the way Terraform parses variables you pass to it through various mechanisms has changed. Who knows what will change in the future?

> However, If #752 is accepted, then this issue will be resolved (.tfvars.json are handled the same way as .tfvars even it's not mentioned in the doc).

Do `.tfvars.json` files have the same restriction as `.tfvars` files? That is, you can only set variables in them that are defined in the module? If so, that will make reusing common var files across different modules more difficult.
***

**ekini** commented *Jun 19, 2019*

> > On the other hand, if terragrunt is positioned as a thin wrapper for terraform, then why does it require a specific version of it?
> 
> Because Terraform is pre 1.0.0, so it offers no backwards compatibility guarantees on its public APIs, so to wrap it, we have to know what APIs we are wrapping. E.g., In the past, the format of the `terraform init` command changed in backwards incompatible ways; now, Terraform processes `terraform.tfvars` files differently, so we had to move away from the old file format; and both in the past and the present, the way Terraform parses variables you pass to it through various mechanisms has changed. Who knows what will change in the future?

Yes, good point. Nobody knows. Though, people still need to have a way to migrate between version somehow.
Maybe put a warning to that big README with something like "we support only XXX version of terraform at the moment, and don't guarantee backwards compatibility with older versions, but we try to keep it"

> > However, If #752 is accepted, then this issue will be resolved (.tfvars.json are handled the same way as .tfvars even it's not mentioned in the doc).
> 
> Do `.tfvars.json` files have the same restriction as `.tfvars` files? That is, you can only set variables in them that are defined in the module? If so, that will make reusing common var files across different modules more difficult.

I'll answer in #752 

Meanwhile, it's not a big change to keep it working: replace boolean `true`/`false` in the inputs with `1`/`0`. Migrating every module to 0.12 is much harder.
***

**ekini** commented *Jun 23, 2019*

I've tidied it up from extra commits, resolved the conflicts and put a note to README.
***

**ekini** commented *Jul 14, 2019*

I'd really like to get it merged, as it's a real blocker for us.

It's easy to create a custom homebrew formula with the patches, but we have people who are struggling on Linux.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jul 20, 2019*

From what I can see, this PR:

1. Adds the ability to specify a custom Terraform binary in `terragrunt.hcl`. I'm fine with this.
1. Reduces the version constraint check from 0.12 to 0.11. However, Terragrunt before 0.19.x worked with Terraform `>= v0.9.3`. This of course can be fixed.
1. Does not actually fix Terragrunt to work with 0.11. E.g., The way boolean vars are passed will not work. This is a blocker. 
1. There may well be other compatibility issues with 0.11. The only way to know is to test with 0.11, but this PR does not update the tests to run against 0.11. This is also a blocker.
***

**ekini** commented *Jul 21, 2019*

This PR doesn't specifically target the compatibility with older versions of terraform, though. It just adds another way to specify the terraform binary, along with the existing env var/cli flag options. I mean, I can use terraform v0.11 right now with new terragrunt, with the tfbinary env var set by `direnv`, but it's inconvenient and forces everyone to use it.

But it can be used with the older terraform.
Do you think I need to lower the version constraint to `>=v0.9.3`?

The reason it doesn't always work with boolean vars is related to infrastructure-as-env-var path chosen by terraform. It can easily be fixed by using `1` and `0` instead of `true` and `false`, or (a better way) by implementing #752. Which is blocked by upstream.

I usually upgrade this way: remove the terragrunt block from `terraform.tfvars`, leaving only variables. Create `terragrunt.hcl` with the terragrunt configuration without variables. Especially if there are maps inside of the variables. If there are only simple vars with numbers and strings, they can be moved to `terragrunt.hcl`.

As for the tests, I'm not sure if they are needed. Is terragrunt going to actually keep compatibility with old versions? Or just _try_ to keep it?
***

**brikis98** commented *Jul 23, 2019*

> This PR doesn't specifically target the compatibility with older versions of terraform, though. It just adds another way to specify the terraform binary, along with the existing env var/cli flag options. 

As I said, I'm totally fine with that addition. But this PR _also_ changes the Terraform version check, and that's the part that worries me.

> Is terragrunt going to actually keep compatibility with old versions? Or just try to keep it?

We do not intend to support Terraform < 12 on Terragrunt >= 19. Removing the version constraint, however, will mean that a number of users will use Terragrunt with Terraform < 12, and will inevitably hit bugs. As a maintainer, I worry about lots of bug reports and a crappy user experience that will result from this.
***

**ekini** commented *Jul 24, 2019*

I'm not sure what to do then. Without lowering the checked version this PR won't help in any way with migration to terraform0.12/terragrunt0.19.

Maybe add another config variable "no-version-check"?  But that increases complexity and won't be used by many people. Or make the version configurable, but again there is the same problem.
***

**ekini** commented *Jul 24, 2019*

How about taking the binary suffix for the version check?
Say `terraform_binary="terraform-0.11`, then take `0.11`, or the default `0.12` otherwise.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jul 25, 2019*

> Or make the version configurable, but again there is the same problem.

I could see something like an `override_terraform_version_check = "> 0.11"` config. So the default Terragrunt will require 0.12 or greater, but if you read the docs, you can find the `override_terraform_version_check` param, and those same docs that the user is now forced to read can also make it clear that Terragrunt is only tested with 0.12 and using it with other versions is 100% at your own risk. 
***

**ekini** commented *Jul 31, 2019*

@brikis98 Ok, I've left the version check as it was before and just added another config option to specify it when needed. Called it `terraform_version_constraint` because the default one is called `DEFAULT_TERRAFORM_VERSION_CONSTRAINT`.
***

**ekini** commented *Aug 5, 2019*

@brikis98 resolved the conflicts.
***

**ekini** commented *Aug 7, 2019*

Ok, fixed the docs, rebased onto the latest `master`.
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 8, 2019*

Great, thanks! I'll run the tests one more time, and if they pass, merge.
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 8, 2019*

Tests passed. Merging now.
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 8, 2019*

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.19.18. Thanks @ekini!
***

**lorengordon** commented *Aug 8, 2019*

@brikis98 @ekini Many thanks for this one! It's nice being able to use latest terragrunt again, even though we haven't yet updated all our terraform to v0.12!

I also really like staged migrations that update one thing at a time. Now we can update to terragrunt v0.19, and then at our leisure update to terraform v0.12, without further breaking our configs.
***

