# Fix error output in plan-all..

**mariux** commented *Jul 21, 2019*

tries to fix issues mentioned in #397: 

when runnign `plan-all` every run states "Errors with plan".. which is due to capturing wrong output.
This patch series fixes several issues and add minor improvements in output:
- fix wrongly detected error by not capturing output for non terraform commands
- fix wrongly captured output for "init-from-module" pseudo-command run
- improve plan-all error output by adding module path of captured error
- improve plan-all output by displaying errors while happening and repeating them in final summary.

it's my first go code ;) so feel free to just take it as a hint how this was fixed for me.


<br />
***


**mariux** commented *Jul 24, 2019*

> Can you explain what you mean by these? Perhaps with an example?

> > fix wrongly captured output for "init-from-module" pseudo-command run

this is basically a fix to the issue described in #397: where at the end of a plan-all run all errors are printed by basically just capturing everything sent to stderr and postponing the output to the end of the plan-all phase.
since this "all errors from plan" should just include errors from actually running a `terraform plan` and not (as it does at the moment) also stuff printed to stderr by terragrunt (e.g. in the "init-from-module" phase or from setting up the s3-backend).

> > fix wrongly detected error by not capturing output for non terraform commands

what also got wrongly captured was stderr from hooks: e.g. from running a `cp -v ....`
which does not make sense because hooks have their own error handling so also the output does not need to be postponed...


***

**brikis98** commented *Jul 25, 2019*

How does your fix compare to https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/722?
***

**mariux** commented *Jul 25, 2019*

> How does your fix compare to #722?

good question... basically this code adds fixes for already intended functionality without adding more complexity.. but feel free to close this one if the other PR also improves it.. i guess the outcome is very similar..
***

**mariux** commented *Jul 2, 2020*

closed as this is outdated.
***

