# Locals

**yorinasub17** commented *Jul 27, 2019*

This implements the concept of `locals` in terragrunt config. This can be used to bind expressions to names for reusing within the config, so that you can DRY complex expressions within the config.

TODO:
- [x] Add more testing
<br />
***


**jfunnell** commented *Jul 28, 2019*

Wow awesome, this is an excellent improvement if it works (might test it today..). 

Like you said, I don't really see how this could have helped with issue #752 and that is fine.. I think the overall best solution to clean up some of the shortcomings of terragrunt is to implement the entire feature set in #759, which would probably require a hefty chunk of code/functionality to change.  
In short, I think this is an acceptable stopgap for now. Just my 2c
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jul 30, 2019*

UPDATE:

I made a huge refactor of the implementation to convert the `locals` attribute to a block. This has the advantage of being able to reference other locals in the `locals` block, but at the expense of being unable to merge directly from `yamldecode`. I think this is an ok tradeoff considering that you can still import yamls as `locals`, only that it can't be merged at the top level (see the new docs I wrote).

Note that I am still optimizing the logs and error handling, so not quite ready to merge yet but I reached the point where it would be good to get some feedback on the new approach.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jul 30, 2019*

Ok @brikis98 this is ready for re-review given the new implementation.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jul 31, 2019*

UPDATE a107c89 :

- Added a bunch more test cases
- Fixed a bug where we parsed multiple locals block, but silently ignored all but the first one defined. Now we throw an error if we detect multiple locals blocks.
- Fixed a case where we weren't properly writing out diagnostics information.

With that, if the build passes, I think we are ready to merge + release!
***

**brikis98** commented *Jul 31, 2019*

LGTM!
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 1, 2019*

Ok merging and releasing. Thanks for the review!
***

