# Implement terragrunt_output

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 9, 2019*

The implementation has now been completely changed. `get_output` is no longer a function and instead is a new block called `terragrunt_output`. The benefits of this approach are:

- Predictable execution paths: it is now very clear when outputs are pulled into the config. See https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/38aca82ff0890af3a4584870b4bd5eed8f788311/README.md#configuration-parsing-order for more info.
- Automatic dependency graph injection: since the parsing order is now predictable, we can seed the dependency graph with the configs specified by `terragrunt_output` blocks. See https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/38aca82ff0890af3a4584870b4bd5eed8f788311/README.md#passing-outputs-between-modules for more info.
- Reuse results of a single `terragrunt output` call: with `get_output`, `terragrunt output` had to be called each time the function was executed to keep the implementation sane. Since `get_output` couldn't be parsed before `locals`, this made it difficult to reuse the output results of a single call if you needed multiple variables from the output. Now only one call needs to be made per block and it can be referenced multiple times.

~This provides an implementation of `get_output`, an interpolation function that can be used to extract the output of another terraform module wrapped with terragrunt config. See [the README changes for more details](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/74273a9628ec766af016056c39e56a54eea6d94b/README.md#get_output).`~

Note that as part of the implementation, it was required to refactor the configuration parsing during a `xyz-all` command to only do a partial decoding. Otherwise, `apply-all` will fail even if you specify dependencies because it will interpolate the `get_output` call in the initial pass to read the `dependencies` from the config. This is handled in a new, `PartialParseConfigFile` function which will only parse the sections specified. ~Note that because `locals`, `include`, `dependencies`, `terraform` blocks are evaluated in this section, `apply-all` in the initial setup will still fail if `get_output`. This is covered in the `README`.~
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 9, 2019*

Ok the main sticking point is finding a good way to cache the `get_output` calls. Unfortunately, I am not sure what is the best way. I am not a fan of memoizing in the global space, and using `locals` has some issues as mentioned above.

I expect that the real solution is in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/828#discussion_r312653692, where we won't need to parse the dependencies block anymore. Although... we still need the `locals` block parsing since I expect you will want to use it for the `terraform` block parsing...
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 13, 2019*

Ok new idea. [This](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/828#discussion_r313190697) got me thinking of a potential way to solve this: what if we introduce a new block? After navigating HCL2, I think I am beginning to understand that it is significantly easier to implement partial parsing decoding of individual blocks as opposed to when it appears in the middle of an AST.

Given that, it seems like the best way to achieve all of the goals is to introduce a new block construct like `terraform_remote_state`, but at the `terragrunt.hcl` level. Here is an example, since I think it will be clear once I show it:

```
terragrunt_output "vpc" {
  config = "../vpc"
}

inputs = {
  vpc_id = terragrunt_output.vpc.vpc_id
}
```

In this model, the caching problem goes away because we can resolve all the `terragrunt_outputs` in the initial parsing and stored somewhere as a reference which can then be reused.

Parsing order problems go away as well, since it can be parsed independently of the rest of the config (except maybe `locals` and `includes`?).

Implementing partial parsing just for dependency building is easy as well, since all we need to do is parse the blocks into a list of structs to get the config: no need to walk an AST!

Another benefit is that we have full control over when the output pulling happens, since now it is a first class task in the decoding pipeline, happening before we pass the HCL struct to the decoder. So the parsing logic will now be:

1. parse `locals`
1. parse `include`
1. parse `terragrunt_output` (replaces `dependencies`)
1. Get outputs from each `terragrunt_output`
1. parse the rest of config
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 13, 2019*

That seems like an elegant solution!
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 14, 2019*

Ok @brikis98 this is ready for a rereview. I have implemented `terragrunt_output` blocks as described in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/pull/828#issuecomment-520655414. I believe this addresses almost all of your concerns from the initial PR:

- Predictable execution paths: it is now very clear when outputs are pulled into the config. See https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/38aca82ff0890af3a4584870b4bd5eed8f788311/README.md#configuration-parsing-order for more info.
- Automatic dependency graph injection: since the parsing order is now predictable, we can seed the dependency graph with the configs specified by `terragrunt_output` blocks. See https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/38aca82ff0890af3a4584870b4bd5eed8f788311/README.md#passing-outputs-between-modules for more info.
- Reuse results of a single `terragrunt output` call: with `get_output`, `terragrunt output` had to be called each time the function was executed to keep the implementation sane. Since `get_output` couldn't be parsed before `locals`, this made it difficult to reuse the output results of a single call if you needed multiple variables from the output. Now only one call needs to be made per block and it can be referenced multiple times.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 15, 2019*

Ok merging and releasing this! Thanks for the review!
***

