# Better error handling of dependency blocks

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 16, 2019*

This addresses https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/837.

Additionally, this implements a new feature to `dependency` blocks that allow you to return default values when the target module hasn't been applied yet.

The primary use case for this is when you want to run a `terragrunt validate-all`, which previously would fail on a completely new infrastructure setup because the dependencies will fail to resolve and thus the `inputs` couldn't be passed in.

Now you can specify dummy values to use in the `outputs` attribute, and restrict to only use that if running `validate`. See the README changes for more info.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 17, 2019*

Ok updates based on feedback:

- No longer use `terragrunt show` to check if target module is applied and instead rely on whether or not the outputs json is empty: 677c6c8 
- Since the new way to check if a module is applied is reliant on the json output being an empty object, it conflates with the use case where there is no output or all the outputs are null, so add a way to skip getting outputs: 30d20fc  (NOTE: this is a neat feature for when we start to implement read config on the `dependency` block)


---

> is there any way to automatically guess a reasonable default value based off the types somehow?

This is non-trivial as we need to parse the terraform code to figure out the expected outputs and their types. The primary use case for the `default_outputs` is when nothing has been applied yet, which implies that there is no state file, which implies that the only way to know the output type is by inspecting the terraform code. Unless there is some magical terraform command you can use to get this about a module in a machine readable way (maybe the plan output?)
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 19, 2019*

> Unless there is some magical terraform command you can use to get this about a module in a machine readable way (maybe the plan output?)

Not that I know of. Only thing I can think of is parsing the `.tf` files in the folder, looking for `variable` and figuring out the type from that. Not impossible, but definitely not trivial.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 19, 2019*

> something makes me think this will cost us something in the future.

I agree. Let me sit on this for another day and see if I come up with any ideas to improve this.
***

**tomalok** commented *Aug 21, 2019*

Are `default_outputs` actually used at any time except to provide `validate-all` with some values?

Maybe something along the lines of `validation_mock_outputs` would be clearer (albeit more verbose...)?
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Aug 21, 2019*

> Are default_outputs actually used at any time except to provide validate-all with some values?

`default_outputs` can also be used to construct the `plan-all` in the initial deployment. But outside of those use cases, there really isn't anything since the outputs will materialize in the `apply-all`.
***

**tomalok** commented *Aug 21, 2019*

`mock_outputs` (or something similar) would at least give the indication that these values aren't referenced at all when it comes time to `apply-all`...  "default" gives me the impression that if there's no resulting outputs for some reason, it'll be set to these values.
***

**brikis98** commented *Aug 21, 2019*

+1 on the idea around naming it `mock_outputs` (or `initial_outputs` or `unapplied_outputs`) or something else to indicate it's not used during normal operation.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 3, 2019*

UPDATE:

- Rebased on master to resolve conflict
- Renamed `default_outputs` to `mock_outputs`. Thanks for the suggestion @tomalok 

@brikis98 any objections to merging this?
***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 4, 2019*

Go for it!
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 4, 2019*

Merging this in. Thanks for the review Jim, and thanks for the feedback @tomalok 
***

