# [RFC] Iteration of modules

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 5, 2019*

This proposes an RFC for potentially supporting iteration of modules in Terragrunt. The document contains the background for why we should consider this.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 5, 2019*

cc @bwhaley 
***

**antonbabenko** commented *Sep 6, 2019*

@yorinasub17 Thanks for this RFC! Here are my 5 cents...

After reading the whole RFC and solving it using cookiecutter before, I like code generation as the proposed solution.

1. I think keeping all generated code in a repo (even if there are 19*19 similar folders) is better because this will allow working on any of them differently (eg, try changes in playground AWS account/region before propagating to the rest).

1. Keeping more files and folders is better for humans to understand the whole footprint (which regions do we use? how they are configured?)

1. Code generation tool can be not related to terragrunt as such because the same is needed for native terraform projects where multiple similar modules have to be managed (while we are waiting for `for_each` with modules).

1. Code generation (especially if implemented as another tool, see above) will allow to keep terragrunt user-friendly and not overload it with features.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 6, 2019*

>  I'd be tempted to do the generate in the Terraform code (.tf files), simulating for_each on the module by just generating N copies of the module from some template, and committing that. Later, when for_each is officially added to Terraform, remove the generated code, and replace it with one module with the for_each on it.

Ah that is a good point.

---

> I'm reluctantly a +1 on code generation.

The one thing I am not sure about is if this should be a first class thing in terragrunt. I think this meshes really well with the scaffolding idea (which should be a separate RFC). As in, if we have the `terragrunt scaffold` (or `terragrunt codegen`, which I like slightly better) feature, this need of iteration can be resolved by the `codegen` system supporting template processing. What do you think of that approach?
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 6, 2019*

> Here are my 5 cents...

Thanks for your input @antonbabenko !

> I think keeping all generated code in a repo (even if there are 19*19 similar folders) is better because this will allow working on any of them differently (eg, try changes in playground AWS account/region before propagating to the rest).

Good point, although I would be concerned about accidentally checking in the changes in the code itself instead of the generator. This could happen if one is not aware of the codegen process.

> Code generation (especially if implemented as another tool, see above) will allow to keep terragrunt user-friendly and not overload it with features.

I understand this sentiment and we definitely want to keep terragrunt simple as possible. That said, having codegen baked into terragrunt has some advantages in improving the UX (think `rails new`). I plan on writing a different RFC with our latest thoughts around this within Gruntwork which highlights this.
***

**bwhaley** commented *Sep 9, 2019*

Thanks @yorinasub17 for writing this RFC and thinking through the problem, and thanks to everyone else for your input. Seems like the consensus is that adding iteration to `terragrunt` will be hard, and given that `for_each` is coming to terraform modules natively very soon, it probably isn't worthwhile to add it here.

Does it even make sense to include code generation (including examples or docs) here in `terragrunt`? Seems tangential and perhaps should live elsewhere. 

Since we need the "run this module in all regions" functionality specifically for the AWS Config module as part of a CIS compliance project, perhaps we should just do the code generation in that repo instead, and close this one out. We could have a new PR in that repo discussing exactly how the code generation would work, including addressing some of the cons raised here. For example:

> When should you run the code generation step?

After modifying the template.

> How often?

Every time the generated code for all regions need to change.

> How do you know if there is drift?

All the generated files should have headers saying "don't touch this, it's generated code." The generated files would be overwritten any time changes are made to the master.

> Do you check in the generated code? If so, you have to maintain it (e.g., 19 sets of files/folders for 19 AWS regions). If it's always generated at runtime, then interacting with just one of the generated things becomes harder.

Yes, always check in the generated code, and never edit anything but the master.

Obviously there are some deeper complexities that will come up during development, but the point is, code generation probably doesn't belong in terragrunt.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 13, 2019*

Given all the discussions, I believe we have reached the conclusion that we shouldn't implement anything specific in Terragrunt regarding this specific use case. There may be other use cases for having code generation in Terragrunt, but those should be optimized for the use cases where it makes sense to bake into Terragrunt.

I have updated the RFC with the recommendation and conclusions. Going to merge this in now so we have it in the repo for reference.

Thanks to everyone who took the time to review this!
***

**smitthakkar96** commented *Dec 13, 2021*

Hey since terraform implemented support for `for_each`, can we revisit this? 
***

