# Added Cli Option to include external dependencies 

**gcrespi** commented *Sep 11, 2019*

on *-all commands without asking on the prompt.
This PR fixes #860 
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Sep 13, 2019*

Sanity check: is there a way to accomplish each of the following?

1. `terragrunt apply-all` that automatically includes all external dependencies.
1. `terragrunt apply-all` that automatically excludes all external dependencies.
1. `terragrunt destroy-all` that automatically includes all external dependencies.
1. `terragrunt destroy-all` that automatically excludes all external dependencies.

We should probably have tests for all of these too!
***

**gcrespi** commented *Sep 19, 2019*

> Sanity check: is there a way to accomplish each of the following?
> 
> 1. `terragrunt apply-all` that automatically includes all external dependencies.
> 2. `terragrunt apply-all` that automatically excludes all external dependencies.
> 3. `terragrunt destroy-all` that automatically includes all external dependencies.
> 4. `terragrunt destroy-all` that automatically excludes all external dependencies.
> 
> We should probably have tests for all of these too!
@brikis98 

1. `terragrunt apply-all --terragrunt-auto-apply-external-dependencies`
2. `terragrunt apply-all --terragrunt-ignore-external-dependencies`
3. `terragrunt destroy-all --terragrunt-auto-apply-external-dependencies`
4. `terragrunt destroy-all --terragrunt-ignore-external-dependencies`

I've added some tests recently:
- one to test that the flag actually sets the new option variable.
- the other was an already existing integration test that was ignored due to the lack of possibility to apply external dependencies o non interactive mode until now.
***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 22, 2019*

Thx @gcrespi. After seeing this:

```
terragrunt destroy-all --terragrunt-auto-apply-external-dependencies
terragrunt destroy-all --terragrunt-ignore-external-dependencies
```

Perhaps `--terragrunt-auto-apply-external-dependencies` should be called `--terragrunt-include-external-dependencies`?
***

**gcrespi** commented *Sep 23, 2019*

Ok @brikis98, sounds good to me. I've just renamed it.

***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 24, 2019*

Build failed:

```
# github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/configstack
configstack/module.go:437:22: terragruntOptions.includeExternalDependencies undefined (cannot refer to unexported field or method includeExternalDependencies)
# github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/configstack [github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/configstack.test]
configstack/module.go:437:22: terragruntOptions.includeExternalDependencies undefined (cannot refer to unexported field or method includeExternalDependencies)
```
***

**gcrespi** commented *Sep 24, 2019*

@brikis98 
> configstack/module.go:437:22: terragruntOptions.includeExternalDependencies undefined (cannot refer to unexported field or method includeExternalDependencies)

Sorry, there was a typo there, the variable initial letter was lowercase :sweat_smile: 

***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 25, 2019*

Kicking off tests again
***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 25, 2019*

OK, test passed! Merging now.
***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 25, 2019*

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.19.27
***

