# Fix bucket creation for remote_state for gcs

**brimstone** commented *Sep 20, 2019*

I wasn't able to convince terragrunt v0.19.25 to create a bucket in GCS for storing remote state. It kept saying:
```
Missing required GCS remote state configuration project
```
I tracked this down to the bit where the remote_state config {} section is cleaned up BEFORE the bucket is created.

This PR fixes it in my limited testing. I'm not sure how to run only the GCS tests so pointers there would be appreciated.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 20, 2019*

This test `TestGCSConfigValuesEqual/equal-ignore-gcs-labels` failed:
```
    --- FAIL: TestGCSConfigValuesEqual/equal-ignore-gcs-labels (0.00s)
        remote_state_gcs_test.go:110: 
            	Error Trace:	remote_state_gcs_test.go:110
            	Error:      	Not equal: 
            	            	expected: true
            	            	actual  : false
            	Test:       	TestGCSConfigValuesEqual/equal-ignore-gcs-labels
```
***

**brimstone** commented *Sep 26, 2019*

I think the test is fixed. I don't see a machine confirming.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 26, 2019*

Just kicked off a build!
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 27, 2019*

@robmorgan can you also take a look to double check the functionality? The change makes sense to me, but since you wrote the original code, definitely could use another set of eyes here.
***

**brimstone** commented *Oct 9, 2019*

Anything I can do to help merge this?
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 10, 2019*

@robmorgan ^
***

**robmorgan** commented *Oct 10, 2019*

Hi all, sorry about the wait. I'll take a look tomorrow.
***

**brimstone** commented *Oct 10, 2019*

@robmorgan Thanks! Not tomorrow is ok too, if it doesn't fall off your radar.
***

**robmorgan** commented *Oct 11, 2019*

Okay, all the tests seem to pass locally for me. Let me check once more on CircleCI.
***

**robmorgan** commented *Oct 11, 2019*

Released in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.20.3
***

