# Return mock outputs when skip_outputs is set to `true`

**barryib** commented *Sep 24, 2019*

When doing `terraform validate` in CI pipeline, we disable the remote state initialization with :

```hcl
remote_state {
  # ...
  disable_init = tobool(get_env("TERRAGRUNT_DISABLE_INIT", "false"))
}
```

So we need to pass `dependency.mock_outputs` with `skip_outputs` set to `true`. But when setted to true, the dependency doesn't have output.

With this PR, we return mock outputs when `skip_outputs` is set to true. The `skip_outputs` should be used only to not pull outputs from remote state and not to disable mock outputs.
<br />
***


**barryib** commented *Sep 25, 2019*

@yorinasub17  @brikis98 any thoughts ?
***

**brikis98** commented *Sep 25, 2019*

@yorinasub17 Could you review?
***

**barryib** commented *Sep 26, 2019*

@yorinasub17 ready for review.

PS: I didn't run all tests.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 26, 2019*

Thanks for getting the updates in! Kicked off our build.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 26, 2019*

Looks like `TestDependencyOutput`, `TestDependencyOutputSkipOutputs`, and `TestDependencyOutputSkipOutputsWithMockOutput` failed in CI. Don't have time to dig in, but see if you can repro locally?
***

**barryib** commented *Sep 27, 2019*

For `TestDependencyOutputSkipOutputs` I think it's failing normally because of :

```
-- FAIL: TestDependencyOutputSkipOutputs (0.06s)
    integration_test.go:1992: Copying fixture-get-output to /var/folders/r8/smx4f8_x0hsfh4rqzv3d_w340000gn/T/terragrunt-test224902107
    integration_test.go:1641:
        	Error Trace:	integration_test.go:1641
        	Error:      	Received unexpected error:
        	            	/var/folders/r8/smx4f8_x0hsfh4rqzv3d_w340000gn/T/terragrunt-test224902107/fixture-get-output/integration/app1/terragrunt.hcl is a dependency of /var/folders/r8/smx4f8_x0hsfh4rqzv3d_w340000gn/T/terragrunt-test224902107/fixture-get-output/integration/empty/terragrunt.hcl but detected no outputs. Either the target module has not been applied yet, or the module has no outputs. If this is expected, set the skip_outputs flag to true on the dependency block.
        	Test:       	TestDependencyOutputSkipOutputs
```

By reading https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/master/config/dependency.go#L217-L220 
```
// This will attempt to get the outputs from the target terragrunt config if it is applied. If it is not applied, the
// behavior is different depending on the configuration of the dependency:
// - If the dependency block indicates a mock_outputs attribute, this will return that.
// - If the dependency block does NOT indicate a mock_outputs attribute, this will return an error.
```

It sounds like it normal to fail because, https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/blob/master/test/fixture-get-output/integration/empty/terragrunt.hcl skip outputs, but doesn't have mock outputs.

Is this worked before as expected ?
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 27, 2019*

> Is this worked before as expected ?

Yes this worked before as expected, and I would want to support this interface where you can use `skip_outputs` without setting mock outputs. This supports the following use cases:

- If we remove `dependencies` block in the future, you can replace them with `dependency` block with `skip_outputs = true` if you are still using `terraform_remote_state` to avoid the performance cost of looking up the outputs.
- If we enhance `dependency` to read the terragrunt config and load various configurations that you can reference (e.g using `dependency.vpc.inputs.aws_region` to read the inputs from another configuration for example), setting `mock_outputs` doesn't make sense because we have no intention of reading them.

The comment was consistent before because `skip_outputs` skipped calling that routine, which made sense because `skip_outputs` was intended to be used to mean "skip output pulling routing", not "return mock outputs".

So given all that, I think the logic needs to be updated so that when `skip_outputs` is true, but `mock_outputs` is not set, it should return empty object for outputs instead of erroring. Can you also update the comment of the routine to indicate this behavior? Thanks!
***

**barryib** commented *Sep 30, 2019*

@yorinasub17 Thanks for your explanation. The PR is ready for review.

Tests are now passing locally.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Oct 5, 2019*

Sorry for the delay in getting back. Kicked off another build!
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Oct 5, 2019*

Ok the build passed, so going to merge and release this. Thanks for your contribution!
***

