# Depdendency Output Variables

**brendanhay** commented *Dec 23, 2016*

I've created this PR not with the intent of it being merged, but more as an illustration of something I'm trying to accomplish which will hopefully result in either me either being re-educated or an actual Go programmer picking up the torch to implement such functionality in a more idiomatic way.

My not-so-contrived example I'd like to use `terragrunt` for is as follows:

```
my-terraform-repo
  └ .terragrunt
  └ qa
      └ vpc
          └ main.tf
          └ outputs.tf
          └ .terragrunt
      └ app
          └ main.tf
          └ inputs.tf
          └ .terragrunt
```

**qa/vpc/outputs.tf:**

```terraform
output "vpc_id" {}
```

**qa/app/inputs.tf:**

```terraform
variable "vpc_id" {}
```

**qa/app/.terragrunt:**

```
include = {
  path = "${find_in_parent_folders()}"
}

dependencies = {
  paths = ["../vpc"]
}
```

**Questions:**

1. If I run `terragrunt spin-up` currently, my understanding is it will error since `-var 'vpc_id=vpc-foo'` needs to be satisfied somehow, is this correct?
2. If I want to run `cd qa/app; terragrunt apply` it will also error (or prompt), for the same reason as above.

Point 1. results in dependencies being not particularly useful for my current use-case where it'd be nice to run `terragrunt apply` for piecemeal infrastructure components (say, just `app` reconfiguration) independently of everything else.

Since `terraform output` has the ability to retrieve all the necessary variables it would be handy if dependencies simply forwarded/threaded any outputs into their dependents. This PR contains an illustrative code change which hopefully demonstrates this and provides a solution for point 1. above, but it specifically does it by refreshing a modules dependencies before a module run as opposed to recording all outputs for a given module after it's run. (See point 2.)

For point 2. it would be nice to be able to run `terragrunt spin-up <stack-component>` where stack component is a dir (`.` or `app`, say) and it would also take care of running up to and including that module + dependencies, as well as obtaining the necessary `terraform output`.

There's quite a few caveats with the approach here, but first I'd like to know if any of this makes sense? Apologies and carry on if not.


<br />
***


**brendanhay** commented *Dec 23, 2016*

Is it possible to instead use [remote state](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/terraform/d/remote_state.html) for the use-case I outlined above?
***

**brikis98** commented *Dec 23, 2016*

@brendanhay Yup, remote state should do what you want, without any chances to Terragrunt. Check out [How to Manage Terraform State](https://blog.gruntwork.io/how-to-manage-terraform-state-28f5697e68fa), and especially the section on [Read-only State](https://blog.gruntwork.io/how-to-manage-terraform-state-28f5697e68fa#7077).
***

