# Add option to ignore the dependency order during plan-all

**JeanFred** commented *Oct 3, 2019*

When running `plan-all`, we may want to run the modules while ignoring the dependency order: since the state is not altered between each `plan`, we might as well run all the plans at once.

This adds an option, `IgnoreDependencyOrder` (defaulting to False), which when set makes `plan-all` disregard the dependencies. 

To achieve that, this adds an `IgnoreOrder` run strategy and an associated `RunModulesIgnoreOrder` method.

Contributes to #868
<br />
***


**JeanFred** commented *Oct 3, 2019*

I’m floating this as potential solution for at least the first half of #868.

- It felt natural to hook on the `DependencyOrder` structure, even in some respects it’s a bit weird: R120-R121 with the `Do Nothing` ^_^ 
- Thinking more − is `IgnoreOrder` a good name or would `NoOrder` be better?
- This includes a fair amount of unit tests, reflecting the ones for `ReverseOrder` − that might be more than warranted :)
- I chose to only make this flag work on `plan-all` (which is the only reasonable use-case I can see), but other flags apply to all `-all` operations − am I trying too hard to protect the user from themselves?
- The CLI option part was heavily modeled after #861

Regarding the second part (run the downstream layers of excluded layers), I still need to dig deeper into this. One question already: should that be activated under the same CLI flag, or another one?
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 7, 2019*

Also, could you rebase on the latest from master?
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 10, 2019*

OK, tests passed. Merging now, thanks!
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 10, 2019*

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.20.2
***

**JeanFred** commented *Oct 10, 2019*

Thanks for merging!
***

