# Add unit tests for `removeFlagExcluded`

**JeanFred** commented *Oct 14, 2019*

When using the `--terragrunt-exclude-dir`, modules are flagged
with a `FlagExcluded` boolean. Later on, when Terragrunt converts
the modules into runningModules (in the `toRunningModules` method),
it calls as last step the method `removeFlagExcluded`.

That method returns a modified map of `runningModules` map,
with the ones marked with the boolean removed and modules
which depend on them have their `Dependencies` fixed accordingly.

This adds unit tests for three use cases for `removeFlagExcluded`:
 - No module is marked with `FlagExcluded`:
   nothing happens, the output is the same as the input
 - One module, with no dependencies, is marked with `FlagExcluded`:
   that module is removed from the map
 - One module, with dependencies, is marked with `FlagExcluded`:
   that module is removed from the map and its direct depedency
   is altered to not depend on the excluded module anymore.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Oct 15, 2019*

Is the context for this the questions you're trying to sort out in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/905#issuecomment-541785592?
***

**JeanFred** commented *Oct 15, 2019*

> Is the context for this the questions you're trying to sort out in [#905 (comment)](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/905#issuecomment-541785592)?

Not really − these tests disproved how I understood Terragrunt to work ; and I thought, might as well propose them to document the existing behaviour. :)
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 15, 2019*

Ah, gotcha. Is it worth updating the `README.md` to clarify how `--terragrunt-exclude-dir` works too?
***

**JeanFred** commented *Oct 15, 2019*

> Ah, gotcha. Is it worth updating the `README.md` to clarify how `--terragrunt-exclude-dir` works too?

Good idea − added a line to the `README.md` :)
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 16, 2019*

Tests passed. Merging now. Since these are docs/test updates only, there won't be a new release. Thank you!
***

