# Only perform exact match when [in|ex]cluding directories

**JeanFred** commented *Oct 17, 2019*

The flags `--terragrunt-include-dir` and `--terragrunt-exclude-dir` are
“Unix-style glob of directories to include (resp. exclude) when running
*-all commands”

Currently, the matching on which directories to include/exclude is done
using `string.Contains`, which means that this excluding `module-a` would
also exclude `module-abba`.

We should really be doing an exact match, since we can get the multi-match
behaviour by using Unix-style globs.

Also add two unit-tests confirming the old and new behaviours.

Ref #905
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Oct 18, 2019*

@autero1 Could you review this one?
***

**autero1** commented *Oct 22, 2019*

Thanks for the PR @JeanFred !

> since we can get the multi-match behaviour by using Unix-style globs.

That is correct. We can filter out all subdirectories of `module-a` recursively with `module-a/**/*` exclude pattern without having to do `strings.Contains`. 

The PR looks good - I'll kick off tests now. 
***

**autero1** commented *Oct 22, 2019*

The integration test `TestExcludeDirs` failed. This is the set of patterns that fixed the test for me.
```
{TEST_FIXTURE_LOCAL_WITH_EXCLUDE_DIR, "--terragrunt-exclude-dir **/gce/**/*", []string{"Module GCE B", "Module GCE C", "Module GCE E"}},
{TEST_FIXTURE_LOCAL_WITH_EXCLUDE_DIR, "--terragrunt-exclude-dir production-env/**/* --terragrunt-exclude-dir **/module-gce-c", []string{"Module GCE C", "Module AWS D", "Module GCE E"}},
{TEST_FIXTURE_LOCAL_WITH_EXCLUDE_DIR, "--terragrunt-exclude-dir integration-env/gce/module-gce-b --terragrunt-exclude-dir integration-env/gce/module-gce-c --terragrunt-exclude-dir **/module-aws*", []string{"Module AWS A", "Module GCE B", "Module GCE C", "Module AWS D"}},
```
This PR will result in a backwards incompatible release because of the change in how the `glob` patterns are applied. I do agree that now the pattern behaves more like a true `glob` pattern and as such will be more precise. But it will lead to breaking existing behaviour.
***

**JeanFred** commented *Oct 24, 2019*

Thanks for the review, the tests, and the fix for the tests! I have updated the PR accordingly with the new test fixtures.
***

**autero1** commented *Oct 24, 2019*

Re-running the tests.
***

**autero1** commented *Oct 24, 2019*

Tests passed, so merging this in!
***

**autero1** commented *Oct 24, 2019*

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/releases/tag/v0.21.0
***

**msvechla** commented *Dec 16, 2019*

Hi, it looks like this PR broke the `--terragrunt-include-dir` flag, see: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/977
***

