# Fix relative path issues on Windows

**cstavro** commented *Jan 10, 2017*

Fixes #89 
<br />
***


**cstavro** commented *Jan 10, 2017*

I'll go through this in more detail. 
Running all the tests is a bit of a gotcha though. Since you guys don't run your tests on Windows at all, you may not realize that there are in fact a large number of failing tests!
I don't think it's a good idea to try and fix them all in this PR.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 10, 2017*

> Since you guys don't run your tests on Windows at all, you may not realize that there are in fact a large number of failing tests!

Sadly, that's true. Do you know of any free CI service similar to CircleCI that works on Windows?

> I don't think it's a good idea to try and fix them all in this PR.

Agreed. We can file separate bugs for unrelated test failures.
***

**cstavro** commented *Jan 10, 2017*

I use CircleCI for my own small projects which tend to be Node based, so no. But a quick search suggests AppVeyor may fit the bill for you. https://www.appveyor.com/
***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 10, 2017*

Ah, appveyor looks promising. I filed #97 to track this.
***

**cstavro** commented *Jan 10, 2017*

I'm working through trying to clean up some of the tests around this as best I can find.

There is still some double escaping going on somewhere.

> === RUN   TestResolveTerragruntInterpolation
> --- FAIL: TestResolveTerragruntInterpolation (0.00s)
>         Error Trace:    config_helpers_test.go:202
>         Error:          Not equal:
>                         expected: "child/sub-child"
>                         received: "child\\\\sub-child"
>         Messages:       For string '${path_relative_to_include()}' include &{${find_in_parent_folders()}} and options {../test/fixture-parent-folders/terragrunt-in-root/child/sub-child/.terragrunt  true []  <nil> <nil>}
>         Error Trace:    config_helpers_test.go:202
>         Error:          Not equal:
>                         expected: "../../.terragrunt"
>                         received: "..\\\\..\\\\.terragrunt"
>         Messages:       For string '${find_in_parent_folders()}' include <nil> and options {../test/fixture-parent-folders/terragrunt-in-root/child/sub-child/.terragrunt  true []  <nil> <nil>}
> FAIL

There is also some weirdness going on with the locking state file id generation. It looks like it's being automatically generated based on the path to the .terragrunt file but I haven't been able to track that down exactly yet.

> === RUN   TestParseTerragruntConfigInclude
> --- FAIL: TestParseTerragruntConfigInclude (0.00s)
>         Error Trace:    config_test.go:278
>         Error:          Not equal:
>                         expected: "child/sub-child/sub-sub-child"
>                         received: "child\\sub-child\\sub-sub-child"
>         Error Trace:    config_test.go:285
>         Error:          Not equal:
>                         expected: "child/sub-child/sub-sub-child/terraform.tfstate"
>                         received: "child\\sub-child\\sub-sub-child/terraform.tfstate"
> FAIL

I will pick this up again tomorrow, unless someone else beats me to it!
***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 10, 2017*

> There is still some double escaping going on somewhere.

Hm, the `.terragrunt` processing does multiple passes, so my best guess is that the `cleanPathForHcl` function is being run multiple times, and thereby, escaping things multiple times. Perhaps that function should *only* escape single slashes, while leaving double slashes unchanged?

> It looks like it's being automatically generated based on the path to the .terragrunt file but I haven't been able to track that down exactly yet.

Yes, that's the purpose of the [path_relative_to_include helper](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt#path_relative_to_include-helper).
***

**cstavro** commented *Jan 10, 2017*

> Yes, that's the purpose of the path_relative_to_include helper.

This is probably going to need to be made platform agnostic so that we ensure different platforms are using the same generated state file id. Worst case, someone runs an apply on Linux and an apply on Windows in parallel and they clobber one another because the dynamically generated state file id doesn't match cross-platform.

Does that fit within the spirit of this PR? or is that a separate issue?
***

**cstavro** commented *Jan 10, 2017*

> Hm, the .terragrunt processing does multiple passes, so my best guess is that the cleanPathForHcl function is being run multiple times, and thereby, escaping things multiple times. Perhaps that function should only escape single slashes, while leaving double slashes unchanged?

So I was thinking something similar, I'm just concerned that this will add an edge case where someone does intentionally add double backslashes. Perhaps in a UNC path or something? 
I feel like if we're okay with that, we should probably have just stuck with my original solution to convert backslashes to slashes and be done with this. 😉 
***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 11, 2017*

> This is probably going to need to be made platform agnostic so that we ensure different platforms are using the same generated state file id. Worst case, someone runs an apply on Linux and an apply on Windows in parallel and they clobber one another because the dynamically generated state file id doesn't match cross-platform.

Good point! 

> Does that fit within the spirit of this PR? or is that a separate issue?

Totally up to you. I'm happy to have it as part of this PR if you have time for it. If not, we can file a separate issue for it. 

> So I was thinking something similar, I'm just concerned that this will add an edge case where someone does intentionally add double backslashes. Perhaps in a UNC path or something?

The only place we are doing this escaping is in the Terragrunt helpers. Neither one, as far as I can tell, should be subject to anything like that.
***

**cstavro** commented *Jan 11, 2017*

Test results
[test_output.txt](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/files/699986/test_output.txt)

***

**cstavro** commented *Jan 11, 2017*

This should fix all the config path issues on Windows.
Might want to double check the test helper functions on the Linux side as I wasn't able to test those myself.
There are still some problems that need to be addressed separately.

1. The state file id generation based on the relative path helpers is platform specific and that's a problem.
2. I highly recommend moving the tests to use [local dynamodb](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/DynamoDBLocal.html) rather than requiring an actual AWS account. Tests would run faster and free....er.
3. The spin-up/teardown commands are going to need a similar bit of love to make them Windows compatible as well. (which I will probably look at in the near future as I'd like to be able to use that functionality)
***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 12, 2017*

> test_output.txt

I'm still seeing quite a few test failures there. Is that the most recent run?

> The state file id generation based on the relative path helpers is platform specific and that's a problem

I filed https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt/issues/99 to track this.

> I highly recommend moving the tests to use local dynamodb rather than requiring an actual AWS account. Tests would run faster and free....er.

That's not a bad idea, but the point of the DynamoDB usage is to check that the code is properly enforcing locking in the face of concurrent users. I worry that the local version won't catch the same bugs since it's inherently not a distributed system (distributed lock). 

> The spin-up/teardown commands are going to need a similar bit of love to make them Windows compatible as well.

What issues are you having with those?
***

**cstavro** commented *Jan 12, 2017*

Yes, lots of errors on Windows. There were even more before I got started. ;)
Let me try to summarize them for you:

**TestParseTerragruntConfigInclude**
State file id mismatch you're tracking in #99 

**TestParseTerragruntConfigIncludeOverrideRemote**
Remote state path issue. S3 remote state should probably use forward slashes

**TestParseTerragruntConfigIncludeWithFindInParentFolders**
State file id mismatch

**TestFindStackInSubfolders**
This is a Windows relative path issue with the finding child stacks with the spin-up/teardown commands. Probably need to create an issue to track this as well.

**TestTerragruntSpinUpAndTearDown**
Looks like a pathing issue with the integration test, not entirely sure what's up

The concurrency/locking errors I don't know what's going on but I'm relatively confident they're not related to these changes. I'm pretty sure that if you run this on a Linux box, the errors would disappear.

I'm also suggesting you _reconsider_ my original fix which was to convert backslashes to forward slashes. It was much simpler. :) HCL happily parses both, so converting to the slash seems like a trivial solution that would integrate much more nicely. I agree I may not have put it in quite the right place originally, but I'm a bit more familiar with things now!

> That's not a bad idea, but the point of the DynamoDB usage is to check that the code is properly enforcing locking in the face of concurrent users. I worry that the local version won't catch the same bugs since it's inherently not a distributed system (distributed lock).

So I haven't dug into these tests at all, but I'm going to suggest that if you're relying on random concurrency errors via the remote dynamodb endpoint to validate your concurrency code, that's probably a bad idea. You should be able to simulate the intended behaviours against the local dynamodb codebase. Perhaps another issue you can track to validate that the concurrency tests are actually behaving as expected?

I'm happy to continue looking into some of these issues as Terragrunt is definitely moving in the direction I want to see it go!

***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 13, 2017*

> TestParseTerragruntConfigIncludeOverrideRemote
> Remote state path issue. S3 remote state should probably use forward slashes

I think this one is simpler. The check that's failing is this one:

```go
assert.Equal(t, "child/sub-child/sub-sub-child", lock.StateFileId)
```

Those forward slashes should be adjusted accordingly depending on the OS.


> TestParseTerragruntConfigIncludeWithFindInParentFolders
> State file id mismatch

Exact same issue.

> TestFindStackInSubfolders
> This is a Windows relative path issue with the finding child stacks with the spin-up/teardown commands. Probably need to create an issue to track this as well.

Hmm, the error I'm seeing looks like another test case hard-coding forward slashes. That test case has the following definition:

```go
filePaths := []string{
  "/stage/data-stores/redis/.terragrunt",
  "/stage/data-stores/postgres/.terragrunt",
  "/stage/ecs-cluster/.terragrunt",
  "/stage/kms-master-key/.terragrunt",
  "/stage/vpc/.terragrunt",
}
```

Further down, it then expects to find each of these:

```go
for _, filePath := range filePaths {
  filePathFound := util.ListContainsElement(modulePaths, filePath)
  assert.True(t, filePathFound, "The filePath %s was not found by Terragrunt.\n", filePath)
}
```

If the `modulePaths` variable contains forward slashes, the above test will fail. Tweaking the `filePaths` variable with forward slashes or back slashes according to the OS may fix this test case.

> TestTerragruntSpinUpAndTearDown
> Looks like a pathing issue with the integration test, not entirely sure what's up

My best guess is that this is caused by the same issue as #99. The state for one of the modules is stored in S3 with back slashes (since its Windows), but the Terraform code is using a `terraform_remote_state` resource that's looking up the path with forward slashes. I think once #99 is fixed by standardizing on backslashes, this should work fine.

> Yes, lots of errors on Windows. There were even more before I got started. ;)

Thank you again for taking a crack at this!

> I'm also suggesting you reconsider my original fix which was to convert backslashes to forward slashes. It was much simpler. :) HCL happily parses both, so converting to the slash seems like a trivial solution that would integrate much more nicely.

The reason I don't like that solution is that we use those paths to load files from the file system. If we get the slashes wrong, then things may not load correctly. Unless, of course, Windows doesn't care about which way the slash goes and will work with either type of path (e.g. `C:/foo/bar` and `C:\foo\bar` are equivalent)?

> So I haven't dug into these tests at all, but I'm going to suggest that if you're relying on random concurrency errors via the remote dynamodb endpoint to validate your concurrency code, that's probably a bad idea.

Terragrunt uses DynamoDB as a distributed lock. We have to be sure that this lock actually locks, so that even if two (or twenty) team members run `terragrunt apply` at the exact same time, only one of them gets the lock at a time. The test cases that hit DynamoDB try to acquire the lock with tons of concurrency as a reasonable sanity check that this works. This isn't exactly a formal proof that the locking works, but it gives us reasonable confidence that we are using DynamoDB's strongly consistent reads and conditional update functionality correctly.

I worry that if we switch to a local version, then those tests won't really be verifying that functionality, as the local version may have different locking/concurrency semantics, even if they guarantee it exposes the same API.
***

**brikis98** commented *Jan 13, 2017*

I'm going to close this one, as #100 fixes all these issues.
***

