# Bucket policy to allow access for the root user

**bwhaley** commented *Dec 18, 2019*

After creating the remote state S3 bucket, we need to grant access to
the root user. Without this, the root user cannot use the remote state
bucket. This is [documented by AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/troubleshoot_iam-s3.html). This also adds a `skip_bucket_root_access` option to the remote state config in case this behavior is undesirable for some reason.

Fixes #770.
<br />
***


**bwhaley** commented *Dec 18, 2019*

Thanks for the review. Good suggestion on refactoring the AWS identity functions. I chose to pull them in to the `aws_helper` package instead. There is still a bit of redundancy since the wrappers in the `config` package have some opaque (to me) function signatures that don't lend themselves to a simple refactor - it seemed out of scope for this change. But happy to work on that too if I can get a little guidance on how those ctx wrappers work.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Dec 18, 2019*

> There is still a bit of redundancy since the wrappers in the config package have some opaque (to me) function signatures that don't lend themselves to a simple refactor - it seemed out of scope for this change

Yup those function signatures are necessary so that they can be available in the HCL parsing pipeline. We don't really want to touch those, so what you have done was exactly what I expected.
***

**bwhaley** commented *Dec 18, 2019*

Tests are passing after I've merged upstream and fixed conflicts (docs related). I'll go ahead and merge now. Thanks for the feedback.
***

**bwhaley** commented *Dec 19, 2019*

I had merged your changes in to my branch and it didn't drop anything. Looks like `skip_bucket_root_access` made it to the live site: https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/use-cases/keep-your-remote-state-configuration-dry/
***

**brikis98** commented *Dec 20, 2019*

OK, great, thx for checking
***

